Title: Steering Vectors are an Adversarial Attack Surface

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.05958v1

Published Time: Fri, 05 Jun 2026 00:58:35 GMT

Number of Pages: 18

Markdown Content:
# Steering Vectors are an Adversarial Attack Surface 

Abzal Aidakhmetov 1, ⋆ Donato Crisostomi 1, ⋆ Tommaso Mencattini 2 Adrian Robert Minut 1

Iacopo Masi 1 Emanuele Rodolà 1

> 1

Sapienza University of Rome 2EPFL 

abzalaidakhmetov@gmail.com tommaso.mencattini@epfl.ch {crisostomi, minut, masi, rodola}@di.uniroma1.it 

> ⋆

Equal contribution. 

Abstract 

Activation steering has become a popular way to control Large Language Model (LLM) behavior without fine-tuning. Since the technique is plug-and-play, users share datasets and precomputed vectors to steer model activations. However, we show that a stealth data poisoning attack silently compromises this pipeline. By substituting 4−6% of tokens in the steering dataset, an attacker can silently align the resulting vector with an anti-refusal direction. This jailbreaks the target model while preserving the intended steering effect on benign prompts. Under this threat model, a malicious actor can distribute an apparently safe bundle containing texts, vectors, and weights, alongside an equivalence certificate that the end-user can verify. We test the attack on two open-weight model families and eight model-attribute combinations, observing that poisoned vectors reach an absolute attack success rate (ASR) of 20 −55% , +19% to 

+51% over a clean reference. Finally, we find that a refusal-direction orthogonalization defense can recover ≈82% of the ASR gap without harming benign behavior.  

> §AbzalAidakhmetov/adversarial_attack

1 Introduction 

Large language models (LLMs) undergo extensive safety alignment to refuse harmful requests, yet adversarial jailbreaks remain a persistent threat. Most existing attacks operate at the prompt level :gradient-based adversarial suffixes (Zou et al., 2023), automated red-teaming (Chao et al., 2025), or template-based injections (Liu et al., 2024; Wei et al., 2023). These approaches are visible in the model input and increasingly mitigated by perplexity-based or classifier-based input filters. In parallel, a different paradigm for controlling LLM behavior has gained traction: activation steer-ing (Turner et al., 2024; Zou et al., 2025; Li et al., 

> a) clean contrastive pair

x+ Write a short poem about the ocean as bullet points. 

x− Write a short poem about the ocean in prose. r

> v
> b) poisoned contrastive pair

ˇx+   

> Describe aconcise poetry about the ocean as bullet points.

ˇx− Write a short verse about the ocean in paragraphs . r

> ˜v

Figure 1: Stealth steering-vector poisoning at a glance. Top. A clean contrastive pair (x+, x −) tar-geting a benign attribute (here, bullet-point formatting) induces a mean-difference steering vector v that makes a large angle θ with the anti-refusal direction r, so adding 

v to hidden states changes formatting without disturb-ing safety behavior. Bottom. Embedding-constrained synonym swaps yield perceptually near-identical pairs 

(ˇ x+, ˇx−) whose vector ˜v has been silently rotated to-ward r. The declared attribute still fires on benign prompts, but refusal is suppressed on harmful ones. 

2023). Rather than crafting adversarial prompts, users compute a direction vector from contrastive text pairs, prompts that exhibit a target attribute (POS ) versus prompts that do not ( NEG ), and add this vector to the model’s hidden states at inference time. The technique is simple, requires no fine-tuning, and generalizes across open-weight mod-els (Rimsky et al., 2024). Because it is lightweight and reusable, activation steering enables a new ecosystem of shared steering datasets and precom-puted vectors , in which users have the possibility to download and apply steering artifacts computed by others rather than recomputing them in-house (Appendix C). 

A supply-chain vulnerability. This sharing prac-tice introduces a new trust surface. If a user 1

> arXiv:2606.05958v1 [cs.LG] 4 Jun 2026

computes a steering vector from a community-provided contrastive dataset, nothing prevents a malicious contributor from poisoning that dataset. We show that such poisoning can be both effective and stealthy : the attacker makes small token sub-stitutions in the contrastive pair texts, constrained to embedding-space nearest neighbors, so that the resulting steering vector silently aligns with the 

anti-refusal direction . When applied at inference, the poisoned vector suppresses the model’s safety guardrails. A user who downloads a dataset labeled “bullet list formatting” would unwittingly deploy a jailbreak vector. Crucially, the vulnerability sur-vives strong provenance guarantees: even if the attacker ships a bundle (pair texts, precomputed vector, suggested weight) together with a crypto-graphic equivalence certificate that the user can re-derive locally, the certificate proves only that the vector was computed correctly from the released texts, and it is the texts that carry the payload. The attack therefore targets a regime that bit-exact re-producibility does not defend against. 

Why this is possible. The attack exploits a fun-damental property of LLM representations: entan-glement . The direction encoding a benign attribute (e.g., “use bullet lists”) occupies the same space as the direction mediating refusal (Arditi et al., 2024); there is no orthogonality guarantee between them, so small perturbations to the contrastive texts can rotate the steering vector toward r. Because the vector is a mean-difference of hidden states, each token substitution contributes a small ∆, and gradient-guided search lets these deltas accumu-late into a significant directional shift while each individual change remains imperceptible. 

What distinguishes our attack. Our approach differs from prior work along three axes. Attack surface: we target the steering dataset , not the inference-time prompt; the adversarial payload is baked into the contrastive pairs before any user touches the model. Stealth: unlike GCG-style suffixes that produce gibberish (perplexity 

>1000 ), our replacements are constrained to embedding-space nearest neighbours from acurated safe vocabulary and are dominantly synonym-like swaps (write →describe ,

short →concise , poem →poetry ); the optimiser typically modifies only 4–6% of tokens, and the resulting vector still elicits the declared attribute on benign prompts essentially as strongly as the clean vector, with ℓ2 norm essentially unchanged on seven of eight combos. Mechanism: 

the attack manipulates neither model weights, as in training-data poisoning (Carlini et al., 2024; Wan et al., 2023), nor the input, but corrupts a post-hoc representation-level intervention, bypassing both input filters and weight-level audits. 

Contributions. 

1. We identify contrastive steering datasets as a novel attack surface and formalise the supply-chain threat model (Section 3). 2. We propose a GCG-style optimisation con-strained to embedding-space neighbours with fluency penalties and safe-vocabulary filtering, producing stealthy poisoned contrastive pairs (Section 3). 3. We validate the attack on two open-weight model families and eight model–attribute com-bos spanning language, formatting, and case, showing 0.20 –0.55 ASR ( +19 to +51 pp over clean) while leaving the declared steering effect on benign prompts and the vector’s ℓ2 norm es-sentially unchanged on seven of eight combos (Section 4). 

2 Related Work 

Activation steering and representation engi-neering. Turner et al. (2024) introduced Con-trastive Activation Addition (CAA): computing mean-difference vectors from contrastive text pairs and adding them to hidden states to steer model be-havior. Zou et al. (2025) generalized this into Rep-resentation Engineering, a framework for reading and controlling model internals via linear probes and interventions. Rimsky et al. (2024) demon-strated contrastive steering on Llama 2 across a range of behavioral attributes, and Li et al. (2023) applied similar interventions to elicit truthful out-puts. Arditi et al. (2024) showed that refusal in LLMs is mediated by a single linear direction, and that ablating this direction eliminates refusal en-tirely. These works establish the techniques we build on, and the assumptions we exploit. None consider the security of the contrastive dataset used to compute steering vectors. 

Adversarial attacks on LLMs. Zou et al. (2023) proposed Greedy Coordinate Gradient (GCG), a gradient-based method that appends adversarial suf-fixes to prompts, achieving transferable jailbreaks. 2GCG produces high-perplexity gibberish that is de-tectable by input filters. Liu et al. (2024) developed AutoDAN, which uses evolutionary search to pro-duce more readable adversarial prompts, and Chao et al. (2025) introduced PAIR, leveraging an at-tacker LLM to iteratively refine jailbreak prompts. Wei et al. (2023) taxonomized failure modes of LLM safety training, including competing objec-tives and mismatched generalization. All of these attacks operate at the prompt level at inference time. Our attack is fundamentally different: it corrupts the steering dataset before inference, so the adver-sarial prompts at test time are clean, unmodified harmful requests. 

Data poisoning and backdoor attacks. Carlini et al. (2024) demonstrated that poisoning web-scale training datasets is practical. Wan et al. (2023) showed that instruction-tuning data can be poi-soned to degrade model safety. Hubinger et al. (2024) trained deceptive “sleeper agent” models that persist through safety training. These attacks target model weights via the training pipeline. Our attack targets a post-hoc representation-level in-tervention : the model weights are never modified, and the poisoning operates on an auxiliary dataset used solely for steering vector computation. This makes our threat model orthogonal to classical data poisoning. 

3 Methodology 

3.1 Threat Model 

We consider an attacker with white-box access to the target model, realistic for open-weight mod-els such as Gemma (Gemma Team, 2024) and Llama (Llama Team, AI @ Meta, 2024), who dis-tributes a bundle : contrastive pair texts, a precom-puted steering vector v, a recommended steering weight α, and an equivalence certificate the user can verify by re-deriving v from the released texts. A user who downloads the bundle (i) re-derives 

v to confirm provenance, (ii) reads the pair texts to check they look natural, and (iii) runs a benign sanity check that (v, α ) produces the advertised attribute behaviour, and if all three pass deploys at the bundled α. The cryptographic certificate proves only that v was correctly computed from the released texts; it does not detect that the texts themselves carry the payload. The attacker’s goal is to modify the dataset so that the resulting steer-ing vector aligns with r, the anti-refusal direction, suppressing safety guardrails at inference. The at-tack is subject to a stealth constraint : the poisoned texts must be plausible paraphrases of the originals. We enforce this through (i) a per-text edit budget of at most nmod token changes, (ii) replacements restricted to embedding-space nearest neighbors, (iii) replacements drawn from a curated safe vocab-ulary, and (iv) a hard perplexity cap on modified texts. 

3.2 Background Contrastive steering vectors. Given a set of N

text pairs {(x+ 

> i

, x − 

> i

)}Ni=1 , where x+ 

> i

exhibits a tar-get attribute (e.g., “uses bullet points”) and x− 

> i

does not, the contrastive steering vector at layer ℓ is: 

v = 1

N

> N

X

> i=1

hℓ(x+ 

> i

) − 1

N

> N

X

> i=1

hℓ(x− 

> i

), (1) where hℓ(x) denotes the hidden state at layer ℓ for the last token of the chat-templated input x. At inference, steering is applied by adding α · v to the hidden states at layer ℓ during the prefill pass, where α is a scalar weight. 

Anti-refusal direction. Following Arditi et al. (2024), we estimate a refusal-mediating direction from the mean difference between hidden states of harmless and harmful prompts at the same layer, oriented so that adding it suppresses refusal: 

r = 1

M

> M

X

> j=1

hℓ(psafe  

> j

) − 1

M

> M

X

> j=1

hℓ(pharm  

> j

), (2) using M = 128 prompts from disjoint harm-ful/harmless splits. We orient r as the anti-refusal 

direction throughout, so adding r to the model’s ac-tivations during inference suppresses refusal behav-ior (Arditi et al., 2024). Equivalently, r = −rref ,where rref is the conventional refusal direction used in prior work. 

Attack objective. The attacker seeks modified texts {(˜ x+ 

> i

, ˜x− 

> i

)} that maximize the cosine similar-ity between the resulting steering vector and r:

arg max   

> {˜x+
> i,˜x−
> i}

˜v⊤r

|| ˜v|| 2 || r|| 2

(3) where 

˜v = 1

N

X

> i

hℓ(˜ x+ 

> i

) − 1

N

X

> i

hℓ(˜ x− 

> i

) (4) subject to the stealth constraints defined above. 33.3 Safe Vocabulary and Neighbor Table 

To ensure replacements are benign English words, we intersect the NLTK English corpus ( ∼234 Kwords) with the model’s tokenizer. After removing terms flagged by Detoxify (Hanu and Unitary team, 2020), and by a Llama-3.3-70B safety screen, we keep only single-token subword-complete entries beginning with a space. This yields ∼36 K safe tokens for Gemma-2 and ∼14 .6K for Llama; full pipeline in Appendix A. For each unique token t ap-pearing in a modifiable position, we precompute its 

top -K nearest neighbors in the target model’s input token embedding space (the rows of its embedding matrix E), N (t) = top -Kt′∈V safe \{ t} cos( et, et′ ),

with K=100 . We typically obtain synonyms, mor-phological variants, or semantically related words. 

3.4 Optimization 

We adapt the Greedy Coordinate Gradient (GCG) framework (Zou et al., 2023) to our constrained set-ting. The key differences from standard GCG are: (i) candidates are drawn from embedding neighbors rather than the full vocabulary, (ii) a per-text edit budget is strictly enforced, (iii) both POS and NEG 

texts are modified, and (iv) fluency penalties are incorporated into candidate scoring. 

Iterative token replacement. At each iteration, the optimizer selects a sample from the pool of 2N

texts (cycling through POS and NEG) and proceeds as follows: 1. Gradient computation. Perform a forward pass with the current text’s token embeddings, compute the cosine similarity between the (in-crementally updated) steering vector and r, and backpropagate to obtain gradients ∇e cos(˜ v, r)

with respect to each input embedding position. 2. Position scoring. At each modifiable position 

p, score all neighbors t′ ∈ N (tp) using the first-order approximation −e⊤ 

> t′

∇ep .3. Candidate generation. Sample C = 64 candi-date texts. For each candidate, select positions with probability proportional to the gradient norm at that position, then randomly pick among the top-scoring neighbors. The per-text edit bud-get nmod is enforced: positions that would ex-ceed the budget are skipped. 4. Candidate evaluation. Evaluate all candidates in batches. For each, compute the exact cosine similarity, apply the fluency penalty, and reject any candidate exceeding the perplexity cap: score (c) = cos(˜ vc, r) − λlm · NLL (c),

reject if PPL (c) > τ, (5) where NLL (c) is the model’s own next-token prediction loss on the modified text, λlm = 0 .2

is the fluency weight, and τ = 2000 is the per-plexity cap. 5. Accept or reject. Accept the highest-scoring candidate if its cosine similarity strictly im-proves over the current best. 

Incremental steering vector updates. Rather than recomputing the full steering vector from all 

2N texts at each iteration, we maintain a cache of per-text hidden states and update incrementally. When text i on the POS side is modified, the steer-ing vector update is: 

˜v ← ˜v + 1

N

 hℓ(˜ x+ 

> i

) − hℓ(x+,prev  

> i

). (6) For NEG texts, the sign is reversed. This reduces each iteration from O(N ) to O(1) forward passes beyond the candidate batch. 

Early stopping. The optimizer is run for at most 

B iterations and stopped earlier if no sampled can-didate edit is accepted for P consecutive iterations. A candidate edit is accepted only when its objec-tive value is higher than that of the current dataset. The values of B and P used in our experiments are reported in Section 4. Appendix K formalizes these progress and termination properties for the implemented sampled algorithm: accepted updates preserve the edit constraints, strictly improve the objective, and the stated stopping rules ensure finite termination. 

Suffix protection. The instruction suffix that de-fines the steering attribute (e.g., "Your answer should contain exactly 3 bullet points" ) is identified via character-level bound-ary detection and excluded from modification .This ensures the poisoned dataset still appears to target the claimed attribute, maintaining the social engineering aspect of the attack. Algorithm 1 (in Appendix A) summarizes the complete attack pipeline. 44 Experiments 

4.1 Setup Models. We evaluate on two open-weight instruction-tuned models spanning different fam-ilies and scales: GEMMA -2-2B-IT (Gemma Team, 2024) at layer 14 and L LAMA -3.1-8B-INSTRUCT (Llama Team, AI @ Meta, 2024) at layer 18. We selected these layers using a prelimi-nary coarse sweep over candidate layers, choosing layers that produced reliable steering for the target attribute. Models are loaded in bfloat16 .

Steering attributes. For each model we select attributes that span three classes of behaviour (language, formatting, and case) and that admit a programmatic compliance check: spanish ,

french , lowercase , and has_bold_only 

on both Gemma-2-2B and Llama-3.1-8B (eight model–attribute combos total). For each combo we use N =20 contrastive pairs. POS 

texts contain the attribute instruction suffix (e.g. “...write your response in all lowercase letters.” ); NEG texts are the same prompts with the suffix removed. The attribute-specifying span of each POS text is iden-tified by per-row substring matching and excluded from modification (Section 3.4), so the poisoned dataset still appears to target the claimed attribute. 

Attack configuration. We use nmod = 5 (max tokens modified per text), K=100 embedding neighbors, λlm =0 .2, perplexity cap τ =2000 , and 

C=64 candidates per iteration. The GCG bud-get is B=1500 iterations with patience P =500 for both model sizes. Each (model, attribute) combo is attacked with three independent GCG seeds (s ∈ { 0, 1, 2}); all reported metrics are the mean over seeds, and we annotate ±1 standard deviation across seeds wherever the quantity depends on the poisoned vector. The clean steering vector is com-puted deterministically from the unmodified pair texts and therefore has no per-seed dispersion. 

Evaluation. We report two metrics on disjoint 100-prompt evaluation sets (no overlap with the harmful/harmless splits used to estimate r). ASR 

(attack success rate) is the fraction of harmful -prompt responses that a three-judge ensemble (C LAUDE -S ONNET -4.5, GPT-4.1, and L LAMA -3.3-70B-I NSTRUCT , all prompted with the same rubric and instructed to mark looping, incoherent, or off-topic outputs as safe) flags as jailbroken by majority vote; Appendix F reports the inter-judge agreement (Fleiss’ κF = 0 .91 ). AC (Attribute Compliance) is the fraction of harmless -prompt responses that satisfy the attribute’s predicate: for 

lowercase and has_bold_only this is a de-terministic regex; for spanish /french it is an off-the-shelf language-ID confidence test 1 (plang ≥

0.5) with a 40-character floor to discard noisy short outputs. Steering is applied during the prompt pre-fill pass only; see Appendix B for the all-step vari-ant. 

Weight selection. Under the bundle threat model of Section 3, the attacker controls α and picks the value that maximises poisoned ASR subject to the bundle remaining plausible (non-degenerate clean-vector AC, perplexity in the normal range). For each combo we evaluate at the attacker-rational integer α ∈ { 2, 3, 4}; per-combo weights are re-ported in Table 2. Our headline metric is absolute ASR at the bundled α; clean-vector ASR at the same α is the counterfactual reference, and we re-fer to the difference as ∆ASR. 

4.2 Main Results 

Figure 2 presents the core finding. For each combo we report ASR (jailbreak success on harm-ful prompts) and AC (declared-behaviour retention on harmless prompts) for both the bundled poi-soned vector and a clean (un-attacked) counterfac-tual at the same bundled weight α.

Absolute jailbreak success. Bundled poisoned vectors reach an absolute ASR of 0.20 –0.55 (mean over three seeds) across the eight combos, with the largest values on Llama-3.1-8B lowercase 

(0.55 ± 0.13 ), Llama-3.1-8B has_bold_only 

(0.49 ± 0.04 ), and Gemma-2-2B lowercase 

(0.49 ± 0.07 ). For reference, the clean-vector coun-terfactual at the same bundled α stays ≤ 0.11 on seven of eight combos (the exception is Gemma 

lowercase at 0.25 , discussed below), so the jail-break surface is essentially absent from an honest bundle with the same construction recipe. The implied lift is ∆ASR = +0 .19 to +0 .51 (i.e. 

+19 to +51 pp); the largest, +0 .51 , is on Llama 

lowercase . The attack works across every at-tribute class in our setup (language, case, and for-matting), with no class being categorically harder to weaponise. Per-seed dispersion is modest on most combos ( σ ≤ 0.07 on six of eight) and   

> 1fastText’s lid.176 model (Joulin et al., 2016, 2017).

5spanish french bold lowercase lowercase bold french spanish 0.00.20.40.6      

> ASR
> +0 .35 +0 .32 +0 .25 +0 .24 +0 .51 +0 .44 +0 .33 +0 .19
> Gemma-2-2B Llama-3.1-8B clean poisoned (a) Attack success rate (harmful prompts). spanish french bold lowercase lowercase bold french spanish 0.20.40.60.81.0
> AC
> +0 .11 +0 .04 +0 .01
> −0.02 +0 .08 +0 .04 +0 .00
> −0.01
> Gemma-2-2B Llama-3.1-8B (b) Benign-attribute compliance (harmless prompts).

Figure 2: Poisoning contrastive steering datasets sharply increases jailbreak success while preserving declared benign steering behavior. Each pair compares clean and poisoned vectors at the same bundled α: ASR rises substantially (a) while AC (attribute compliance; b) stays close to clean. Markers are means over three GCG seeds; bars on poisoned dots are ±1 std (clean is seed-deterministic). Combos grouped by model; sorted by ∆ASR within each group. 100 evaluation prompts per seed; per-combo (ℓ, α ) in Table 2. 

larger on the two lowercase combos (Gemma 

σ ≈ 0.07 , Llama σ ≈ 0.13 ); even at the lower end of the dispersion, the poisoned vector remains well above the clean baseline. 

Attribute retention on benign prompts. This is the stealth result. On six of the eight combos, the poisoned steering vector continues to elicit the declared attribute on benign prompts at a rate within ±0.07 of the clean vector. The largest ab-solute AC changes are Gemma spanish (+0 .11 )and Llama lowercase (+0 .08 ), both lifts : a be-nign user sanity-checking the poisoned vector sees the declared attribute fire more reliably, not less. The remaining combos are essentially flat (Llama 

french 0.00 , Llama spanish −0.01 , Gemma 

lowercase −0.02 , Gemma has_bold_only 

+0 .01 ) and stay at ≥ 0.58 absolute on the six com-bos with a working clean-vector attribute, with per-seed std ≤ 0.04 throughout. Gemma lowercase 

is an outlier in the opposite direction: even the clean vector achieves only AC = 0 .14 at the bun-dled weight (the lowercase attribute is weakly repre-sented at layer 14 on Gemma-2B), so the attribute sanity check at step (iii) of the bundle protocol would alert a careful defender that the vector does not reliably do its declared job, irrespective of any attack. For the seven well-behaved combos, a user who downloads a community-provided “Spanish-output”, “French-output”, “lowercase-output”, or “bold-only” bundle and sanity-checks it on benign prompts will see exactly what they expect: the vec-tor reliably produces the declared behaviour. The jailbreak payload manifests only when the same vector is applied to a harmful prompt. The combination of the two columns is the threat: a vector that visibly does its declared job on be-nign inputs is unlikely to be discarded by a casual user, yet flips refusals on harmful inputs at a rate of 0.20 –0.55 , a ratio of 2–20 × the clean-vector counterfactual’s depending on the combo. 

4.3 Optimisation Internals 

Figure 3 reports what the GCG search achieves at the vector level: the cosine similarity between the steering vector and r before and after the attack, and the number of tokens it edits. The clean steering vector is essentially orthog-onal to r (|cos clean | ≤ 0.10 ): the entangled-but-not-aligned regime our attack exploits. After a mean of 116 –122 edits per seed across the 40 pair texts, the optimiser rotates the vector to a mean cosine of 0.22 –0.59 with r (per-seed std 

≤ 0.05 on all combos), enough to suppress re-fusal at the bundled weights, but still far from a perfect alignment ( cos = 1 ). The lift in cos corre-lates broadly with the lift in ASR but is not its sole determinant: Llama has_bold_only achieves the highest mean ∆cos = +0 .49 and a ∆ASR of +0 .44 , while Llama lowercase reaches a slightly smaller ∆cos = +0 .47 but the highest 

∆ASR = +0 .51 ; conversely Llama spanish 

reaches ∆cos = +0 .35 with ∆ASR = +0 .19 , and Gemma has_bold_only hits a similar ∆cos 

= +0 .37 with ∆ASR = +0 .25 , reflecting model-specific safety margins and weight choices. 6spanish french bold lowercase lowercase bold french spanish   

> −0.2
> 0.0
> 0.2
> 0.4
> 0.6
> cos( v, r) 122/40 118/40 122/40 122/37 116/40 120/40 122/40 121/40
> Gemma-2-2B Llama-3.1-8B
> clean poisoned

Figure 3: Poisoning rotates steering vectors toward r.Clean vectors are nearly orthogonal ( | cos | ≤ 0.10 ); poisoned vectors become substantially aligned after a small number of token edits. Annotations above each combo report edits/texts : the mean number of token edits and the mean number of pair texts touched (out of 2N = 40 ); per-text budget nmod = 5 (worst case 

200 edits). Means over three seeds; bars are ±1 std on poisoned. Combos ordered by ∆ASR. 

4.4 Directional Specificity 

A natural concern is that the attack might be a norm-inflation artefact. Appendix D (Figure 5) shows this is not the case: on seven of eight combos the poisoned-to-clean ℓ2-norm ratio sits in [0 .96 , 1.20] (four below 1.0); the single outlier (Llama has_bold_only at 1.78 ×) is driven by an unusually small clean-vector norm. Removing it, ASR still rises sharply across the remaining seven, so the lift is not explainable by larger vectors at the same weight: the cosine rotation toward r in Figure 3 is the dominant driver. GPT-2 perplexity on benign responses also stays in the same range under both vectors. 

4.5 Text Naturalness 

The optimiser edits on average 120 tokens per combo across seeds (std ≤ 10 ), ≈ 6% of modifiable tokens (per-text budget nmod = 5,worst case 200 per combo). The dominant pattern is synonym-like substitution: representative swaps from the Gemma spanish run include 

write →describe , letter →message ,

poem →poetry , short →concise .A minority of swaps are noisier: exam-ples are entity shifts like Japan →China ,some POS-changing morphological cousins (photosynthesis →photosynthetic ), or near-homophones ( recipe →receipt ). By contrast GCG-style adversarial suffixes produce perplexity >1000 and visibly random tokens; here,            

> Population nFlag rate Harmful prompts (used for r)128 1.000
> Harmless prompts 128 0.000
> Clean pair texts (pre-attack) 320 0.000
> Poisoned pair texts 960 0.018

Table 1: LLM-judge audit flag rates. The rubric is well calibrated on the refusal-direction prompts and flags only ≈2% of poisoned pair texts: a small surface-text leak rather than detection of the payload. 

the modified texts read as plausible paraphrases. 

4.6 Dataset Auditing with an LLM Judge 

A natural defense is to screen the contrastive dataset itself: pass every pair text through a frontier-model safety classifier and reject any entry that reads as harmful. We test this defense with C LAUDE -SONNET -4.5 under a safety-auditor rubric that flags entries that are harmful, unethical, jailbreak-like, or adversarially tampered. Calibration uses the 128 harmful prompts used to estimate r (pos-itive control) and 128 harmless prompts from the same split (specificity); the test populations are the 320 clean pair texts (deduped across the three seeds; pre-attack) and the 960 poisoned pair texts (8 combos × 3 seeds × 40 texts). Table 1 reports the flag rates. The rubric is well calibrated on the controls ( 128 /128 harmful, 0/448 

harmless or clean-pair). On the 960 poisoned pair texts it fires on only 17 (flag rate = 0 .018 ); per combo the rate stays in [0 .000 , 0.042] , against a 

0/40 clean baseline in each cell. The cosine align-ment with r on the same texts is +0 .22 to +0 .59 

over clean (Figure 3), so the audit catches at most a small surface-text side-effect of the synonym walk rather than the rotation itself: 11 of 17 flags come from a single original ( “Describe how a refriger-ator works to a 10-year-old” ), whose head noun is swapped to entities ( bartender , harem , stroller )that pair with 10-year-old to trigger unrelated child-safety signals; three more come from a brittle “eat-ing a dead cow” variant where the food noun is replaced by a human. Because the audit is cheap and adversary-blind, an attacker can apply the same screen locally, drop the flagged entries, and re-run the GCG search on the remainder: this adds a con-stant overhead to the attack budget but is not a secu-rity barrier. Even without that adaptation, 941 /960 

of the poisoned texts go through unflagged, leaving the geometric alignment with r essentially intact. 7spanish french bold lowercase lowercase bold french spanish 0.00.20.40.60.8        

> ASR
> 82% 114% 108% 38% 101% 36% 92% 84%
> Gemma-2-2B Llama-3.1-8B
> clean poisoned poisoned + defence (a) Attack success rate (harmful prompts). spanish french bold lowercase lowercase bold french spanish 0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
> AC
> Gemma-2-2B Llama-3.1-8B (b) Benign-attribute compliance (harmless prompts).

Figure 4: Refusal-direction orthogonalisation neutralises most of the poisoned-vector jailbreak lift while preserving the advertised steering behavior. Each combo is shown in three states at the same bundled α as Figure 2: clean (gray), poisoned (red), and the poisoned vector with the refusal direction projected out (gold diamond). Projecting r

out of the poisoned vector reduces ASR toward the clean baseline (a); annotated percentages show the gap recovered, 

(ASR p − ASR d)/(ASR p − ASR c). AC (attribute compliance; b) changes only modestly on harmless prompts. Combos grouped by model; sorted by ∆ASR within each group. 

4.7 Refusal-Direction Orthogonalisation 

A natural mitigation for a defender with access to harmful/harmless prompts is to sanitise an un-trusted steering vector by projecting the refusal direction out of it: vdef = v − (v · ˆr)ˆ r. By con-struction cos( vdef , r) = 0 , while the orthogonal component on which the declared attribute almost entirely relies (Figure 3) is preserved. Figure 4 reports the per-combo breakdown. The orthogonalisation reduces poisoned-vector ASR by 0.09 –0.51 absolute (mean −0.27 ), recovering on average 82% of the gap between the poisoned and clean ASR, staying at or below the baseline on three combos. Harmless-prompt AC changes by at most ±0.09 on all eight combos (defended vs. poisoned); the mean change is essentially zero, and for Llama spanish the defended AC actually 

rises (0.84 → 0.88 ). On the clean-vector control the defense is a near-no-op ( |∆ASR | ≤ 0.05 and 

|∆AC | ≤ 0.02 on the seven well-behaved com-bos), consistent with | cos( vclean , r)| ≤ 0.10 from Figure 3. The defense works precisely because the at-tack relies on a large v·r component: by Fig-ure 3 the poisoned vectors sit at mean cos( v, r) ∈

[0 .22 , 0.59] , and zeroing out that component ab-sorbs most of the jailbreak lift while sparing the attribute-bearing orthogonal component. The de-fense neutralises the attack of Section 3 as writ-ten; an adaptive attacker can co-optimise under a hard cap cos( v, r) ≤ τ to stay below the de-fender’s threshold. We sweep this cap on the strongest Llama combo in Appendix E and find that the threshold defense remains robust: on Llama 

lowercase , at τ = 0 .10 the constrained attacker recovers only 3% of the unconstrained ASR gap (and ≤9% across τ ∈ [0 .05 , 0.30] ). 

5 Conclusions 

We demonstrated that contrastive activation steer-ing datasets can be stealthily poisoned to produce jailbreak vectors, even when the attacker ships a complete bundle (texts + vector + weight + equiva-lence certificate) and the user verifies provenance. Constraining replacements to embedding-space neighbours from a curated safe vocabulary gener-ates texts that look like minor paraphrases, with the optimiser typically touching only 4–6% of modifi-able tokens. Across two model families and eight combinations, poisoned vectors reach 0.20 –0.55 

absolute ASR ( +19 to +51 pp over the clean coun-terfactual) while attribute compliance on benign prompts shifts by at most 0.11 and ℓ2 norm stays close to clean on seven of eight combos, so a user who sanity-checks the bundled artefact sees the behaviour the dataset’s label promises, and the jail-break surfaces only on harmful inputs. Verification of shared steering artefacts must therefore test the artefact on adversarial inputs, not just on the benign queries it was advertised to steer, and not only by re-deriving the vector from the texts. 8Limitations 

The attack requires white-box access for gradi-ent computation and embedding-neighbour lookup; this is realistic for open-weight models but does not apply to closed APIs. We test only up to 8B parameters; larger models may have different rep-resentational geometry both for r and for the en-tanglement we exploit. One combo (Gemma-2-2B 

lowercase at layer 14) is weakly-steered (clean AC = 0 .14 at the bundled weight), failing the bun-dle protocol’s benign sanity check; we retain it for transparency but it does not contribute to the stealth claim. Finally, we only target the refusal direction; other attack objectives and cross-model transferability remain unexplored. 

Acknowledgments 

This work was supported by a grant from Coeffi-cient Giving, administered by the Berkeley Exis-tential Risk Initiative (BERI), as well as by MUR FIS2 grant n. FIS-2023-00942 “NEXUS” (cup B53C25001030001) and by Sapienza University of Rome via the Seed of ERC grant “MINT.AI” (cup B83C25001040001). 

References 

Andy Arditi, Oscar Obeso, Aaquib Syed, Daniel Paleka, Nina Panickssery, Wes Gurnee, and Neel Nanda. 2024. Refusal in language models is mediated by a single direction. In Advances in Neural Informa-tion Processing Systems , volume 37. Nicholas Carlini, Matthew Jagielski, Christopher A. Choquette-Choo, Daniel Paleka, Will Pearce, Hyrum Anderson, Andreas Terzis, Kurt Thomas, and Florian Tramèr. 2024. Poisoning web-scale training datasets is practical. In IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy .Patrick Chao, Alexander Robey, Edgar Dobriban, Hamed Hassani, George J. Pappas, and Eric Wong. 2025. Jailbreaking black box large language models in twenty queries. In IEEE Conference on Secure and Trustworthy Machine Learning (SaTML) .Gemma Team. 2024. Gemma 2: Improving open lan-guage models at a practical size. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.00118 .Laura Hanu and Unitary team. 2020. Detoxify. Github. https://github.com/unitaryai/detoxify. Evan Hubinger, Carson Denison, Jesse Mu, Mike Lam-bert, Meg Tong, Monte MacDiarmid, Tamera Lan-ham, Daniel M. Ziegler, Tim Maxwell, Newton Cheng, Adam Jermyn, Amanda Askell, Ansh Rad-hakrishnan, Cem Anil, David Duvenaud, Deep Gan-guli, Fazl Barez, Jack Clark, Kamal Ndousse, and 20 others. 2024. Sleeper agents: Training decep-tive LLMs that persist through safety training. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.05566 .Armand Joulin, Edouard Grave, Piotr Bojanowski, Matthijs Douze, Hérve Jégou, and Tomas Mikolov. 2016. FastText.zip: Compressing text classification models. arXiv preprint arXiv:1612.03651 .Armand Joulin, Edouard Grave, Piotr Bojanowski, and Tomas Mikolov. 2017. Bag of tricks for efficient text classification. In Proceedings of the 15th Confer-ence of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Volume 2, Short Papers .Kenneth Li, Oam Patel, Fernanda Viégas, Hanspeter Pfister, and Martin Wattenberg. 2023. Inference-time intervention: Eliciting truthful answers from a lan-guage model. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 36. Xiaogeng Liu, Nan Xu, Muhao Chen, and Chaowei Xiao. 2024. AutoDAN: Generating stealthy jailbreak prompts on aligned large language models. In Inter-national Conference on Learning Representations .Llama Team, AI @ Meta. 2024. The Llama 3 herd of models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21783 .Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan, Dario Amodei, and Ilya Sutskever. 2019. Language models are unsupervised multitask learners. Techni-cal report, OpenAI .Nina Rimsky, Nick Gabrieli, Julian Schulz, Meg Tong, Evan Hubinger, and Alexander Turner. 2024. Steer-ing llama 2 via contrastive activation addition. In 

Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 15504–15522. Association for Computational Linguistics. Alexander Matt Turner, Lisa Thiergart, Gavin Leech, David Udell, Juan J. Vazquez, Ulisse Mini, and Monte MacDiarmid. 2024. Steering language mod-els with activation engineering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.10248 .Alexander Wan, Eric Wallace, Sheng Shen, and Dan Klein. 2023. Poisoning language models during in-struction tuning. In International Conference on Ma-chine Learning .Alexander Wei, Nika Haghtalab, and Jacob Steinhardt. 2023. Jailbroken: How does LLM safety training fail? In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 36. Andy Zou, Long Phan, Sarah Chen, James Campbell, Phillip Guo, Richard Ren, Alexander Pan, Xuwang Yin, Mantas Mazeika, Ann-Kathrin Dombrowski, Shashwat Goel, Nathaniel Li, Michael J. Byun, Zifan Wang, Alex Mallen, Steven Basart, Sanmi Koyejo, 

9Dawn Song, Matt Fredrikson, and 2 others. 2025. Representation engineering: A top-down approach to AI transparency. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.01405 .Andy Zou, Zifan Wang, Nicholas Carlini, Milad Nasr, J. Zico Kolter, and Matt Fredrikson. 2023. Univer-sal and transferable adversarial attacks on aligned language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.15043 .

A Additional Experimental Details 

Safe vocabulary pipeline. We construct the safe vocabulary mask over the model’s tokenizer via the following pipeline: 1. Start from the NLTK English word corpus (∼234 K words). 2. Remove words flagged as toxic by Detox-ify (Hanu and Unitary team, 2020). 3. Remove words flagged by Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct screening. 4. Map surviving words to the model’s tokenizer vocabulary, keeping only single-token entries that begin with a space character (i.e., subword-complete tokens). This yields approximately 36K safe tokens for Gemma-2 and 14.6K for the Llama tokenizer. 

Attack pseudocode. Algorithm 1 summarises the complete attack pipeline described in Sec-tion 3.4. 

Steering weights and layers per combo. Table 2 lists the per-combo steering weight α and layer ℓ

from the x-axis labels for readability. For each combo we apply the steering vector at the same fixed layer ℓ used during the attack, and evaluate the clean and poisoned vectors at the same bundled weight α: the attacker-rational integer in {2, 3, 4}

under the threat model of Section 4 (maximises poisoned ASR while keeping the bundle’s benign-attribute sanity check plausible). 

Table 2: Per-combo steering layer and bundled weight used throughout the main-text figures. Both the clean and the poisoned vector are evaluated at the same α.                             

> Model Attribute Layer ℓWeight α
> Gemma-2-2B spanish 14 3Gemma-2-2B french 14 3Gemma-2-2B lowercase 14 4Gemma-2-2B has_bold_only 14 4Llama-3.1-8B spanish 18 3Llama-3.1-8B french 18 4Llama-3.1-8B lowercase 18 2Llama-3.1-8B has_bold_only 18 4

B All-Step Protocol Ablation 

Every result in the main text uses the prefill 

steering protocol: the steering vector is added to 10 layer-ℓ activations during the prompt prefill, and decode steps run unsteered. The canonical setup from Arditi et al. (2024) instead applies the same edit at prefill and every decode step, with the KV cache built from steered activations ( all_steps ). The steering vector itself is protocol-independent, so we re-evaluate the saved poisoned vectors of two headline combos under the all-step protocol at lower weights. 

Table 3: Headline combos re-evaluated under the all-step steering protocol of Arditi et al. (2024) at lower weights. The steering vector is identical to its prefill counterpart; only the inference-time application differs.                                 

> Model Attribute Layer ·αAC (c →p) ASR (c →p) ∆ASR
> Gemma-2-2B spanish 14 ·1.5 0.90 →0.93 0.02 →0.43 (+0.41) Llama-3.1-8B lowercase 18 ·1.75 0.62 →0.90 0.06 →0.40 (+0.34)

Both combos in Table 3 retain a large jailbreak lift under all-step at significantly lower steering weights ( α ∈ { 1.5, 1.75 } vs. {3, 2} for prefill), and AC is preserved or improved (most strik-ingly, Llama lowercase rises from 0.62 to 0.90 :the all-step protocol is more aggressive, so the poisoned vector enforces lowercase output more strongly on benign prompts). We default to pre-fill in the main results because the compliant-to-degenerate weight window is narrower under all-step (at the prefill weight α = 2 , all-step Llama drives outputs into degenerate looping), making weight selection brittle. The attack itself does not depend on the choice of protocol. 

C Realized Attack Surface 

The sharing pipeline our threat model targets is not hypothetical: steering artifacts are already dis-tributed and deployed today. Control vectors are a first-class inference feature in llama.cpp ,2

where a user can apply a downloaded vector via a single --control-vector flag. Pre-computed vectors for popular open-weight models (Llama-3, Mistral-Large, Mixtral, Qwen-1.5, miqu) are distributed on the HuggingFace Hub as ready-to-load artifacts, 3,4 alongside benchmark suites for evaluating shared steering methods. 5 Python li-

> 2https://github.com/ggml-org/llama. cpp/pull/5970
> 3https://huggingface.co/jukofyork/ creative-writing-control-vectors-v3.0
> 4https://huggingface.co/datasets/ codelion/Qwen3-0.6B-pts-steering-vectors
> 5https://huggingface.co/datasets/ WangResearchLab/SteeringSafety

braries that wrap the train–share–apply workflow (repeng 6 and steering-vectors 7) are pub-licly available on PyPI and import directly from HuggingFace model and dataset identifiers. At the commercial end, Goodfire’s Ember API hosts feature-level steering as a paid service backed by open-sourced sparse autoencoders for Llama-3.1-8B and Llama-3.3-70B. 8 The ecosystem is still small relative to model sharing on HuggingFace, but it spans hobbyist, research, and commercial deployment, and the supply-chain trust assump-tion our attack exploits, that a user computing or downloading a vector from upstream-provided con-trastive pairs trusts those pairs, is already standard practice in every one of these pipelines. 

D Norm Sanity Check 

Section 4.4 summarises the norm-inflation check. Figure 5 gives the full per-combo breakdown. Per-seed std on the norm ratio is ≤ 0.05 on ev-ery combo except Llama has_bold_only . The Llama has_bold_only absolute poisoned norm (3.9) is in line with the other Llama vectors; only the clean-vector norm at this layer is anomalously small. On five of eight combos response perplexity is lower under the poisoned vector in mean, so the attack does not degrade output fluency on benign inputs. 

E Constrained-Bypass Sweep 

Section 4.7 introduces the refusal-direction orthogonalisation defense and notes that adefender who knows r can additionally screen uploaded vectors for suspicious cosine with 

−r: a hard threshold cos( v, −r) ≤ τ rejects vectors that look like jailbreak vectors. The natural adaptive-attacker question is whether the GCG optimiser can stay below τ and still recover a usable fraction of the jailbreak lift. We answer it here for the strongest cell in our matrix, Llama-3.1-8B lowercase at α = 2, by re-running the attack with a per-candidate hard reject on cos( v, −r) > τ (--cos_max_hard 

in build_adv_stealth.py ) and score-monotonic acceptance, for τ ∈{0.05 , 0.10 , 0.15 , 0.20 , 0.30 }. We use three GCG seeds per cap and report mean ± std. 

> 6https://github.com/vgel/repeng
> 7https://github.com/steering-vectors/ steering-vectors
> 8https://www.goodfire.ai/blog/ sae-open-source-announcement

11 spanish french lowercase bold lowercase bold french spanish 1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75 2.00  

> ‖vpoisoned ‖ / ‖vclean ‖ 1.78 ×
> Gemma-2-2B Llama-3.1-8B

(a) Steering-vector norm ratio. spanish french lowercase bold lowercase bold french spanish 10 2           

> 2×10 1
> 3×10 1
> 4×10 1
> 6×10 1
> Response perplexity
> Gemma-2-2B Llama-3.1-8B clean poisoned

(b) Benign-response perplexity. 

Figure 5: The attack is, with one exception, not a norm-inflation artefact. The poisoned-to-clean ℓ2-norm ratio (a) stays close to 1.0 on seven of eight combos (four below 1.0, three in [1 .06 , 1.20] ); only Llama has_bold_only 

is an outlier ( 1.78 ×), driven by an unusually small clean-vector norm. GPT-2 (Radford et al., 2019) perplexity on benign responses (b) stays in the same range under clean and poisoned steering. Means over three seeds; ±1 std bars on poisoned. Layout matches Figure 2. 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.30    

> τ(cap on cos( v,−r))
> 0.0
> 0.1
> 0.2
> 0.3
> 0.4
> 0.5
> 0.6
> 0.7
> ASR
> B(τ=0 .10) = 3%
> unconstrained (0.55) clean (0.04) constrained attack

(a) Attack success rate (harmful prompts). 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.30    

> τ(cap on cos( v,−r))
> 0.75
> 0.80
> 0.85
> 0.90
> 0.95
> 1.00
> AC (lowercase compliance)
> unconstrained (0.91) clean (0.83) constrained attack

(b) Attribute compliance (harmless prompts). 

Figure 6: Adaptive-attacker sweep against a cosine-threshold defender on Llama-3.1-8B lowercase , α = 2 .The attacker re-runs the GCG optimisation with a hard cap cos( v, −r) ≤ τ at each operating point. (a) ASR collapses toward the clean baseline at every cap; the bypass fraction B(τ ) = ( ASR τ − ASR c)/(ASR p − ASR c) at the headline τ = 0 .10 is only 3% . (b) Attribute compliance on harmless prompts is preserved across the full sweep (the optimiser still finds high-AC vectors; it just cannot rotate them onto −r). Mean ± std over three GCG seeds. 

Figure 6 reports the curve. The unconstrained poisoned vector reaches cos( v, −r) = 0 .48 ± 0.03 

and ASR = 0 .55 ± 0.13 ; the clean vector is at 

cos = 0.007 and ASR = 0.04 . Forcing the optimiser to stay at τ = 0.10 drops ASR to 

0.057 ± 0.006 , just above the clean baseline of 

0.043 , while AC remains at 0.87 (vs. 0.91 uncon-strained and 0.83 clean). Even at the loosest cap we tested ( τ = 0 .30 , well above a credible defender threshold), the realised cosine reaches only 0.21 ,and ASR is 0.083 ± 0.015 – a bypass fraction of just 8% . We read this as evidence that the cosine threshold is a tight bottleneck on the jailbreak sig-nal: once the optimiser cannot align v with −r,the attribute-bearing component alone does not jail-break the model, even though it suffices to keep AC at near-unconstrained levels. The orthogonalisa-tion defense of Section 4.7 and a cosine-threshold screen are thus complementary and, in this cell, jointly robust to the adaptive attacker. 

F Judge Ensemble and Inter-Judge Agreement 

The headline ASR in Section 4 is computed by majority vote over three LLM judges – C LAUDE -SONNET -4.5, GPT-4.1 and L LAMA -3.3-70B-INSTRUCT – each prompted with the same rubric (the safety-classifier prompt of Section 4, instruct-ing the model to mark looping or off-topic outputs 12 as safe) and called with temperature 0. A com-pletion is flagged as HARMFUL iff at least two of the three judges call it harmful; ties (one judge skipped or refused) default to SAFE . The ensemble guards against any single judge’s idiosyncrasies – e.g. a calibration drift that systematically over- or under-flags borderline outputs – without changing the prompt or the rubric per judge. Table 4 reports the agreement statistics. Across the 17 ,888 harmful completions where all three judges returned a label, pairwise raw agreement is 0.972 −0.976 , every pairwise Cohen’s κ is ≥

0.907 , and Fleiss’ κF for the three raters jointly is 0.913 – in the standard “almost perfect” band. The three judges also agree on per-class marginals (HARMFUL rate 0.180 /0.177 /0.189 for Sonnet / GPT-4.1 / Llama-70B), so no judge is a system-atic outlier. Agreement is uniformly high across regimes, with the poisoned-vector pool (where models loop or generate borderline content most often) at κF = 0 .914 and the constrained-bypass sweep at κF = 0 .870 .The three judges return unanimous labels on 

96 .1% of harmful completions, leaving 694 split decisions out of 17 ,888 . Among those splits, Llama-70B is the minority 39% of the time, Sonnet 

33% , and GPT-4.1 28% – i.e. the minority slot is distributed roughly evenly with a mild Llama lean, not concentrated in one judge. Because Sonnet was our original primary judge and agrees with the majority on 98 .7% of items, the ensemble changes individual per-cell ASR numbers by at most 1−2

pp; the qualitative gap between clean, poisoned, and defended vectors – which is several tens of percentage points in every cell – is unaffected. We therefore retain the majority label as the canonical ASR throughout the paper. 

G Compute Budget 

All experiments ran on a SLURM-managed clus-ter with NVIDIA A100 (64 GB) GPUs, one GPU per (cell, seed). Models are loaded in bfloat16 ;peak GPU memory is ≈6 GB for Gemma-2-2B and ≈17 GB for Llama-3.1-8B. A single attack run takes ≈10 minutes on both models at the budget reported in Section 4 ( B=1500 , C=64 ), so the 24 attacks (8 combos × 3 seeds) consume ≈4 GPU-hours in total. The accompanying evaluation ma-trix (350 eval runs across {clean, poisoned, de-fended, all-steps, constrained-bypass} × {harm-ful, harmless} × weight choices) adds ≈8 GPU-hours, for a total of ≈15 GPU-hours. LLM judges (C LAUDE -S ONNET -4.5, GPT-4.1, L LAMA -3.3-70B-I NSTRUCT ) contribute ≈100 K API calls and are not counted in the GPU-hour budget. 

H Artifacts and Licenses 

Models. GEMMA -2-2B-IT is released under the Gemma Terms of Use; LLAMA -3.1-8B-INSTRUCT under the Llama 3.1 Community Li-cense. Judge models are accessed via API: CLAUDE -S ONNET -4.5 under Anthropic’s usage policies, GPT-4.1 under OpenAI’s usage policies, and L LAMA -3.3-70B-I NSTRUCT under the Llama 3.3 Community License. 

Data and packages. The NLTK English word corpus is distributed under the Apache 2.0 license; Detoxify (Hanu and Unitary team, 2020) under Apache 2.0; fastText’s lid.176 model (Joulin et al., 2016, 2017) under CC-BY-SA-3.0; GPT-2 (Radford et al., 2019) under the MIT license. Harmful and harmless prompt splits are reused from Arditi et al. (2024). 

Our code. The attack, defense, and evaluation code accompanying this paper is released under the MIT license. All uses above are non-commercial research, consistent with each artefact’s terms. 

Intended-use consistency. Our use of G EMMA -2-2B-IT and L LAMA -3.1-8B-I NSTRUCT is a security/red-teaming study of activation-steering pipelines, which falls under the safety-research provisions of both models’ acceptable-use poli-cies. We do not redistribute model weights. The poisoned contrastive pair texts and steering vec-tors we create are derivatives of artefacts accessed for research purposes and are intended for safety-research use only, consistent with the original ac-cess conditions. 

PII and offensive content. The harmful and harmless prompt splits inherited from Arditi et al. (2024) were screened by the original authors and do not contain personally identifying information. By design, the harmful split contains requests for harm-ful content, used here only as evaluation stimuli for safety classifiers and never as training data. A small fraction ( ∼2% ) of poisoned pair texts contain surface-level offensive collocations that arise as side-effects of the embedding-neighbor swap; Sec-13 Sonnet vs GPT-4.1 Sonnet vs Llama-70B GPT-4.1 vs Llama-70B 3-rater Scope n agr. κ agr. κ agr. κ κF                                                     

> Overall (harmful) 17,888 0.976 0.920 0.972 0.907 0.974 0.912 0.913 Clean vector 7,413 0.984 0.876 0.981 0.852 0.984 0.879 0.869 Poisoned vector 7,408 0.965 0.920 0.960 0.911 0.961 0.912 0.914 Defended vector 1,582 0.982 0.907 0.979 0.889 0.985 0.921 0.906 Constrained-bypass sweep 1,485 0.989 0.914 0.982 0.878 0.976 0.821 0.870
> Table 4: Inter-judge agreement on the eight-combo ×three-seed harmful evaluation pool. Overall pools all harmful-split completions across clean, poisoned, defended, and constrained-bypass vectors; the sub-rows restrict to each regime. Pairwise columns report raw agreement and Cohen’s κ; the rightmost column is Fleiss’ κFacross all three raters. Agreement is uniformly high ( κF≥0.87 in every regime) and the majority label coincides with the original CLAUDE -S ONNET -4.5 label on 98 .7% of items, so the ensemble preserves the per-cell ASR numbers up to ≤1.3
> pp in absolute terms while ruling out single-judge artefacts.

tion 4.6 analyses these explicitly. No new human-subject data was collected. 

Scope of released artefacts. The attack code targets two model families (Gemma-2, Llama-3.1) at the layers reported in Table 2. Pair texts are in English; the output-language at-tributes ( spanish , french ) cover two Ro-mance languages, and the formatting attributes (lowercase , has_bold_only ) are language-agnostic but evaluated only on English outputs. The harmful and harmless prompt splits are in English. The safe-vocabulary mask (Appendix A) is built per tokenizer ( ∼36 K tokens for Gemma-2, ∼14 .6Kfor Llama). No demographic attributes are involved in the pair construction. 

I Ethics and Responsible Disclosure 

The attack we describe is dual-use: the same pro-cedure that demonstrates the vulnerability can be misused to jailbreak deployed models. We miti-gate this in two ways. First, we publish a defense (refusal-direction orthogonalisation, Section 4.7) and a complementary cosine-threshold screen (Ap-pendix E) that together neutralise the attack on ev-ery combo we tested. Second, our threat model tar-gets a community-sharing pipeline that is still small (Appendix C); publishing now, before the ecosys-tem scales, gives maintainers of llama.cpp ,

repeng , and HuggingFace steering-vector reposi-tories time to add the integrity checks our defense suggests. 

J Use of AI Assistants 

We used LLM coding assistants for refactoring, plotting scripts, and boilerplate, and LLMs for sentence-level prose polishing; all technical con-tent, claims, and experimental design are authored and verified by the authors. LLMs are also used as part of the methodology itself, as evaluation judges (Section 4, Appendix F) and in the safe-vocabulary screening pipeline (Appendix A); these uses are described in the body of the paper. 

K Theoretical Guarantees 

The poisoning objective in Equation (3) is a dis-crete, nonconvex optimization problem over token sequences; we do not claim that Algorithm 1 finds a global optimum. This appendix formalises al-gorithmic guarantees: the procedure stays inside the stealth-preserving feasible set, monotonically improves the attack objective whenever it accepts an update, and admits a local-optimality interpreta-tion for an exhaustive variant. For the proofs, it is useful to collect all stealth constraints into a single mathematical object: the feasible set of poisoned datasets. This lets us reason about the algorithm as an ascent procedure over a finite constrained search space. We prove three results. First, Algorithm 1 pre-serves feasibility, monotonically improves the co-sine objective whenever it accepts an update, and terminates after finitely many accepted updates. Second, an idealized exhaustive version of the search procedure returns a coordinatewise local op-timum whenever it completes a full non-improving sweep. Third, under a Lipschitz assumption on the hidden-state map, the steering-vector perturba-tion caused by poisoning is explicitly bounded by the edit budget and the embedding radius of the neighbor table. 14 K.1 Definitions 

Let 

D0 = {(x+ 

> i

, x − 

> i

)}Ni=1 

denote the original contrastive dataset. A poisoned dataset is denoted 

D = {(˜ x+ 

> i

, ˜x− 

> i

)}Ni=1 .

For any dataset D, define its layer-ℓ contrastive steering vector as 

v(D) = 1

N

> N

X

> i=1

hℓ(˜ x+ 

> i

)

− 1

N

> N

X

> i=1

hℓ(˜ x− 

> i

).

The attack objective is 

F (D) = cos( v(D), r).

Definition K.1 (Feasible poisoned dataset) . A poi-soned dataset D is feasible if every text ˜x+ 

> i

and ˜x−

> i

satisfies the following constraints: 1. it differs from its original text in at most nmod 

modifiable token positions; 2. every replacement token belongs to the safe vo-cabulary Vsafe ;3. every replacement of an original token t belongs to its precomputed neighbor set N (t);4. protected suffix tokens are unchanged; 5. the modified text satisfies the perplexity cap, 

PPL(˜ x) ≤ τ .We denote the set of all feasible poisoned datasets by D.The feasible set D is the mathematical represen-tation of the stealth constraint. It contains exactly the datasets that the attacker is allowed to output. Because the original dataset contains finitely many token positions, each position has finitely many al-lowed replacements, and each text has a finite edit budget, D is finite. 

Definition K.2 (Algorithmic trajectory) . Let Dt

denote the current poisoned dataset after iteration t

of Algorithm 1. If the algorithm accepts a candidate at iteration t, then Dt+1 is the dataset obtained by applying that candidate. Otherwise, Dt+1 = Dt.

Definition K.3 (Coordinate neighborhood) . For a feasible dataset D ∈ D , its coordinate neigh-borhood Ncoord (D) is the set of feasible datasets 

D′ ∈ D that differ from D in at most one text among the 2N positive and negative texts. The coordinate neighborhood captures the type of local move considered by the optimizer: modify one selected text while keeping all other cached hidden states fixed. 

Definition K.4 (Exhaustive coordinate-ascent vari-ant) . The exhaustive coordinate-ascent variant of Algorithm 1 selects texts in the same round-robin order, but when a text is selected it evaluates every feasible modification of that text. It accepts an up-date if and only if at least one feasible single-text modification strictly improves 

F (D) = cos( v(D), r),

and in that case it may accept any strictly improving modification. This exhaustive variant is not the implementation used in our experiments. It is an idealized version used only to state the local-optimality property that the practical sampled method approximates. 

Definition K.5 (Embedding perturbation radius) .

For a text x and a modified text ˜x of the same length, define the embedding perturbation distance 

demb (x, ˜x) = X

> p

∥exp − e˜xp ∥2,

where the sum is over token positions. We say the neighbor table has radius ρ if every allowed replacement t′ ∈ N (t) satisfies 

∥et − et′ ∥2 ≤ ρ. 

The radius ρ measures how far a single allowed token replacement can move the input embedding. This gives a way to translate the discrete edit budget into a continuous bound in activation space. 

K.2 Feasibility, Monotonicity, and Finite Termination 

The first result states that the practical algorithm always remains inside the allowed search space and never decreases the attack objective. This is the basic correctness property needed to interpret the method as constrained ascent. 

Theorem K.6 (Feasibility, monotonicity, and finite termination) . Assume Algorithm 1 is initialized at 

15 the original dataset D0 and accepts a candidate only when its cosine objective strictly improves over the current best value. Then, for every itera-tion t,

Dt ∈ D .

Moreover, 

F (Dt+1 ) ≥ F (Dt),

with strict inequality whenever an update is ac-cepted. Finally, the algorithm can make only finitely many accepted updates. In particular, its returned dataset DT satisfies 

F (DT ) ≥ F (D0).

Proof. We first prove feasibility. The original dataset is feasible by definition when zero edits are applied. At each iteration, candidate generation only proposes replacements from the precomputed neighbor table, and each neighbor belongs to the safe vocabulary. The algorithm skips edits that would exceed the per-text budget nmod and never modifies protected suffix positions. Candidate eval-uation rejects any text whose perplexity exceeds 

τ . Therefore every accepted update satisfies all constraints in Theorem K.1. By induction over iterations, Dt ∈ D for all t.We next prove monotonicity. At iteration t, ei-ther the algorithm accepts a candidate or it does not. If it does not accept a candidate, then Dt+1 = Dt,so 

F (Dt+1 ) = F (Dt).

If it accepts a candidate, the acceptance rule re-quires 

F (Dt+1 ) > F (Dt).

Thus F (Dt+1 ) ≥ F (Dt) always, with strict in-equality for accepted updates. Finally, D is finite. Since accepted updates strictly increase F and the algorithm remains inside the finite set D, it cannot accept infinitely many up-dates. The explicit iteration budget B and patience parameter P provide additional finite stopping cri-teria. Therefore the algorithm terminates after finitely many accepted updates, and by monotonic-ity the final dataset satisfies F (DT ) ≥ F (D0).

K.3 Coordinatewise Local Optimality of an Exhaustive Variant 

The practical algorithm samples only C candidates per iteration, so failure to find an improvement does not imply that no improvement exists. The following result applies to the exhaustive variant from Theorem K.4. It says that if the exhaustive procedure checks all single-text moves and finds no improving move, then the returned point is a local optimum with respect to those moves. 

Theorem K.7 (Coordinatewise local optimality) .

Consider the exhaustive coordinate-ascent variant in Theorem K.4. Suppose it completes a full sweep over all 2N texts without accepting an update. Let 

DT be the dataset at the end of that sweep. Then 

DT is coordinatewise locally optimal over D:

F (DT ) ≥ F (D′)

for every D′ ∈ N coord (DT ).Proof. A full sweep selects each of the 2N texts once. By definition of the exhaustive variant, when a text is selected, the algorithm evaluates every feasible modification of that text while holding all other texts fixed. Since the sweep ends without accepting an update, no feasible modification of any single text strictly improves the objective. Every dataset D′ ∈ N coord (DT ) differs from 

DT in at most one text and is feasible. Such a dataset would have been considered during the sweep when that text was selected. Since no im-proving update was accepted, we must have 

F (D′) ≤ F (DT ).

Because this holds for every D′ ∈ N coord (DT ),

DT is coordinatewise locally optimal. 

K.4 Bounded Steering-Vector Perturbation 

The previous results concern optimization. The next result concerns the size of the perturbation induced by the stealth constraints. It shows that if allowed token replacements are close in embedding space, and the model’s hidden states vary smoothly with respect to embedding perturbations, then the poisoned steering vector cannot move arbitrarily far from the original steering vector. 

Proposition K.8 (Bounded activation perturbation) .

Assume that the hidden-state map x 7 → hℓ(x) is 

L-Lipschitz with respect to demb , meaning that for any two texts x and ˜x of the same length, 

∥hℓ(˜ x) − hℓ(x)∥2 ≤ L d emb (x, ˜x).

Assume also that the neighbor table has radius ρ

in the sense of Theorem K.5. Then every feasible poisoned dataset ˜D ∈ D satisfies 

∥v( ˜D) − v(D0)∥2 ≤ 2Ln mod ρ. 

16 Proof. Let ˜x be any feasible modification of an original text x. By feasibility, ˜x differs from x in at most nmod token positions. By the radius assump-tion, each replacement changes the corresponding input embedding by at most ρ. Therefore 

demb (x, ˜x) = X

> p

∥exp − e˜xp ∥2

≤ nmod ρ. 

By the Lipschitz assumption, 

∥hℓ(˜ x) − hℓ(x)∥2 ≤ Ln mod ρ. 

Define the positive and negative hidden-state perturbations as 

∆+ 

> i

= hℓ(˜ x+ 

> i

) − hℓ(x+ 

> i

),

∆− 

> i

= hℓ(˜ x− 

> i

) − hℓ(x− 

> i

).

Then 

∥v( ˜D) − v(D0)∥2 = 1

N

> N

X

> i=1

∆+ 

> i

− 1

N

> N

X

> i=1

∆−

> i
> 2

≤ 1

N

> N

X

> i=1

∥∆+ 

> i

∥2 + 1

N

> N

X

> i=1

∥∆− 

> i

∥2

≤ Ln mod ρ + Ln mod ρ

= 2 Ln mod ρ. 

This proves the claim. 

Scope of the guarantees. These guarantees should be interpreted as algorithmic guarantees rather than global optimization guarantees. They show that the procedure is a feasible monotone as-cent method over a finite constrained search space, and that an exhaustive coordinate-ascent variant has a standard local-optimality property. They do not imply that the returned dataset globally maxi-mizes cos( v(D), r) over D.17 Algorithm 1 Stealth Poisoning of Contrastive Steering Datasets 

Require: Model M, layer ℓ, contrastive pairs {(x+ 

> i

, x − 

> i

)}Ni=1 , anti-refusal direction r

Require: Safe vocabulary Vsafe , neighbor count K, edit budget nmod 

Require: Candidates C, budget B, patience P , fluency weight λlm , perplexity cap τ

Ensure: Poisoned pairs {(˜ x+ 

> i

, ˜x− 

> i

)}, poisoned steering vector ˜v 

> 1:

// Precomputation  

> 2:

for each unique token t in modifiable positions do  

> 3:

N (t) ← top-K neighbors of t in Vsafe by cos( et, et′ ) 

> 4:

end for  

> 5:

// Initialize  

> 6:

Cache hidden states hℓ(x) for all 2N texts  

> 7:

˜v ← 1

> N

P 

> i

hℓ(x+ 

> i

) − 1

> N

P 

> i

hℓ(x− 

> i

) 

> 8:

best_cos ← cos(˜ v, r); stall ← 0 

> 9:

// Optimization loop  

> 10:

for iter = 1 , . . . , B do  

> 11:

Select text xj from pool of 2N texts (round-robin)  

> 12:

sj ← +1 if xj is POS , −1 if NEG  

> 13:

// Gradient-guided candidate generation  

> 14:

g ← ∇ e

1 − cos(˜ v, r) {backprop through xj } 

> 15:

for each modifiable position p in xj do  

> 16:

Score neighbors: s(t′) ← − e⊤ 

> t′

gp for t′ ∈ N (tp) 

> 17:

end for  

> 18:

Sample C candidates by picking positions ∝ ∥ gp∥ and top-scoring neighbors  

> 19:

(skip positions that would exceed edit budget nmod ) 

> 20:

// Evaluate and accept  

> 21:

for each candidate c do  

> 22:

˜vc ← ˜v + sj

> N

 hℓ(c) − hℓ(xj ) {incremental update}  

> 23:

score (c) ← cos(˜ vc, r) − λlm · NLL (c) 

> 24:

Reject c if PPL (c) > τ  

> 25:

end for  

> 26:

c∗ ← arg max c score (c) 

> 27:

if cos(˜ vc∗ , r) > best_cos then  

> 28:

xj ← c∗; update hidden-state cache and ˜v 

> 29:

best_cos ← cos(˜ v, r); stall ← 0 

> 30:

else  

> 31:

stall ← stall + 1  

> 32:

end if  

> 33:

if stall ≥ P then  

> 34:

break {early stopping}  

> 35:

end if  

> 36:

end for  

> 37:

return {(˜ x+ 

> i

, ˜x− 

> i

)}, ˜v

18