Title: Detecting Sensitive Personal Information in Japanese Pre-Training Corpora for Large Language Models

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.12114v1

Published Time: Thu, 11 Jun 2026 01:07:26 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
# Detecting Sensitive Personal Information in Japanese Pre-Training Corpora for Large Language Models 

Rei Minamoto 1,2 , Yusuke Oda 2, Daisuke Kawahara 1,2 

> 1

Waseda University 

> 2

Research and Development Center for LLMs, National Institute of Informatics 

{ray@akane., dkw@}waseda.jp odashi@nii.ac.jp 

Abstract 

Sensitive personal information can appear in large-scale pre-training corpora for large lan-guage models (LLMs). Detecting and filtering such information is therefore essential to en-sure compliance with privacy regulations and prevent unintended information leakage. How-ever, in contrast to English and other languages, research into sensitive personal information has been limited in the Japanese language. In this study, we focus on sensitive personal data de-fined as special care-required personal informa-tion (SCPI) under Japan’s Act on the Protection of Personal Information (APPI). We construct an SCPI dataset using LLM-based annotation and train machine learning models to rapidly detect SCPI in text. As a result, our SCPI classi-fier can effectively identify information related to SCPI. This study is the first to explore SCPI detection in Japanese text corpora, highlighting the challenges of accurate detection. 

1 Introduction 

Large-scale pre-training corpora are essential for building large language models (LLMs), and web crawling is a common way to construct them. Crawlers comprehensively gather publicly avail-able data, although they may unintentionally col-lect personal information. If such content remains unfiltered within training corpora, there is a risk that LLMs may memorize it and subsequently leak it through their outputs (Huang et al., 2022). Privacy laws in various countries impose stricter rules on sensitive attributes than on ordinary per-sonal information. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) (European Parlia-ment and Council of the European Union, 2016) defines them as special categories of personal data in Article 9, and the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), which amends the California Con-sumer Privacy Act (CCPA), defines sensitive per-sonal information in California Civil Code Section 1798.140(ae) (California Legislature, 2024). Filtered  

> Pre -training
> Corpus
> LLM -based
> SCPI Annotation
> Large -scale
> Web Corpus
> Name
> Recognition
> SCPI Dataset Fast SCPI
> Classifier
> High -
> performance
> LLM
> Low -
> parameter
> LLM
> Taro Tanaka
> Lives in
> Tokyo…

Figure 1: SCPI detection pipeline 

In Japan, the Act on the Protection of Per-sonal Information (APPI) (Ministry of Justice (Japan), 2023) defines these attributes as special care-required personal information (SCPI) in Arti-cle 2. When SCPI remains in training corpora or is memorized by LLMs, the social and legal impacts of leakage will be even more severe. Therefore, corpora collected by crawling must be filtered for SCPI, and accurate technologies that detect such information are essential. As described later in Section 2.2, SCPI data re-quired for training the classifier is subject to le-gal restrictions on its use, and therefore, no pub-licly available SCPI datasets exist. Consequently, it is necessary to independently construct a dataset while ensuring compliance with legal regulations. Corpora collected via web crawling are very large, and in some cases, corpora used for LLM pre-training can contain trillions of words. For this reason, an SCPI classifier needs to operate both effectively and at high speed. As shown in Figure 1, in this study, we apply LLM-based annotations to a text corpus in two stages to build an SCPI dataset. We then train various machine learning models on the annotated dataset to develop a fast SCPI classifier and evalu-ate their performance. 

> arXiv:2606.12114v1 [cs.CL] 10 Jun 2026

2 Legal Background 

2.1 Personal Information under APPI 

APPI defines personal information as “information containing a name, date of birth, or other identi-fier or the equivalent which can be used to identify a specific individual” or “those containing an in-dividual identification code.” This latter category of individual identification code includes biomet-ric information, passport numbers, and other simi-lar identifiers. Non-text information contained in video or audio is not covered in this study. Information that has already been made public in newspapers, on the Internet, and similar sources is also subject to protection as personal information. On the other hand, information about deceased people is not included in personal information. 

2.2 Special Care-required Personal Information under APPI 

APPI defines SCPI as follows: personal information as to an identifiable person’s race, creed, social status, med-ical history, criminal record, the fact of having suffered damage by a crime, or other identifiers or their equivalent pre-scribed by Cabinet Order as those of re-quiring special care so as not to cause unjust discrimination, prejudice or other disadvantages to that person. Specifically, the following 11 items are defined as categories of SCPI in APPI and Cabinet Order un-der APPI (Ministry of Justice (Japan), 2017): 1. race, 2. creed, 3. social status, 4. medical his-tory, 5. criminal record, 6. crime victimization, 7. disability, 8. diagnostic information, 9. med-ical treatment, 10. criminal proceedings, and 11. juvenile protection. As mentioned above, SCPI is a type of personal information that requires special protection. There-fore, information constitutes SCPI only if it is per-sonal information and includes information falling under the above categories. With some exceptions, such as academic re-search purposes by academic institutions, the ac-quisition of SCPI and its provision to third parties generally requires the consent of the individual. However, this study is conducted for academic pur-poses by academic institutions and falls under the exception provisions based on APPI. Therefore, we annotate SCPI using LLMs and extract SCPI from the corpus while processing them appropri-ately and in compliance with the law. In carrying out this research, the measures described in the Ethical Considerations are a core part of the study and should be explicitly addressed. Furthermore, on June 2, 2023, the Personal In-formation Protection Commission issued a warn-ing regarding the use of generative AI services and specifically addressed OpenAI (Personal In-formation Protection Commission (Japan), 2023). It emphasized the need to ensure that SCPI is not included in training datasets for machine learning, and if such data is included, it must be deleted or appropriately processed. In this paper, we use the terms personally iden-tifiable information (PII) and sensitive personal information (SPI) as general terms in related work. In the Japanese legal context, PII broadly corre-sponds to personal information under APPI, and SPI broadly corresponds to SCPI. However, SCPI is the specific legal category defined by APPI and the related Cabinet Order, and this paper focuses on SCPI. 

3 Related Work 

As mentioned in the previous section, SCPI refers to personal information that includes sensitive in-formation requiring special care. While a number of studies have addressed the detection or removal of PII from large-scale pre-training corpora, com-paratively limited attention has been paid to SPI at the corpus level. 

Detection of PII in Pre-Training Corpora Re-search on detecting PII in text corpora has received increasing attention. Subramani et al. (2023) an-alyzed PII contained in the training corpora and compared detection methods. Beyond analysis, in some recent pre-training cor-pora, PII filtering is applied during dataset con-struction. Common Corpus (Langlais et al., 2025) detected PII using Microsoft Presidio 1, augmented with custom regular-expression patterns, and re-placed detected PII. In contrast, Dolma (Soldaini et al., 2024) prioritized efficiency due to its scale and used carefully crafted regular expressions to detect and handle PII. However, these efforts explic-itly target PII, while SPI is not explicitly discussed. 

Detection of SPI Petrolini et al. (2022) devel-oped a model to detect GDPR-defined special cat-

> 1https://microsoft.github.io/presidio/

egory data, trained on data from Reddit. Gam-barelli et al. (2023) constructed a dataset contain-ing GDPR-defined special category data through the annotation of information from a web cor-pus. While several studies on SPI detection are grounded in legal definitions, there also exist stud-ies that focus on sensitive information in LLM outputs without relying on such legal frameworks. Zhang et al. (2025) proposed a benchmark dataset to evaluate semantically sensitive information in LLM outputs, which is related in scope but not di-rectly comparable to our corpus-level SPI detection task. Recent pre-training corpora such as Dolma3 adopt LLM-based filtering pipelines that target PII and may also remove sensitive attributes when they are linked to PII (Olmo et al., 2025). However, this LLM-based filtering is applied only to specific subsets of the data, such as PDF documents, rather than to the entire pre-training corpus. Despite this, research on SPI detection that is grounded in legal definitions and explicitly consid-ers scalable, corpus-wide application to large-scale pre-training corpora remains limited. 

Current Research on SCPI Detection In the Japanese context, there are no prior peer-reviewed studies that explicitly address SCPI detection. Moreover, systematic investigations of SCPI de-tection for large-scale Japanese text corpora have not been reported. While there exist practical corpus curation pipelines 2 for Japanese LLM training data, these pipelines combine rule-based filtering based on surface-level patterns, such as Japanese personal names and explicit sensitive terms, with a Naive Bayes classifier for practical risk mitigation rather than exhaustive or semantically complete SCPI de-tection. Consequently, they are not directly com-parable to methods designed for systematic SCPI detection evaluation. Accordingly, this study is the first to system-atically explore SCPI detection, addressing this critical gap in the literature. 

4 SCPI Dataset 

In this section, we describe how to construct a dataset for the SCPI classifier. The dataset de-scribed in this section consists of a collection of 

> 2https://github.com/matsuolab/ jp-llm-corpus-pii-filter High -performance
> model
> GPT -OSS
> (120B)
> Low -parameter
> models
> Positive
> (SCPI)
> Negative
> (Non -SCPI)
> NER
> Gemma
> (9B)
> Swallow
> (8B)
> agreed
> positive
> agreed
> negative

Figure 2: SCPI dataset construction pipeline 

texts to be classified and a single SCPI label as-signed to the text. 

4.1 SCPI Labels 

As mentioned in Section 2.2, the APPI defines 11 categories of SCPI. Descriptions of each label are provided in Appendix A. Additionally, we include non-SCPI, resulting in a total of 12 categories as labels. 

4.2 Dataset Construction Method 

The dataset is constructed in two stages: (1) person name recognition and (2) SCPI annotation. First, we perform person name recognition. Prior work has shown that person names are among the most frequently occurring forms of PII in web-derived corpora. For example, Presidio-based anal-ysis reported that 97.3% of detected PII in C4 and 96.1% in the Pile correspond to names (Subramani et al., 2023), making person names a practical en-try point for candidate extraction. Under APPI, SCPI refers to personal information about identifi-able individuals that includes sensitive information requiring special care. In this setting, a personal name can identify a specific individual on its own, whereas addresses or phone numbers are typically evaluated in combination with other information. We therefore use person name recognition as a prac-tical candidate-reduction step to identify candidate texts during dataset construction. Next, LLM-based annotation of SCPI is per-formed. To balance scalability and annotation qual-ity, we adopt a two-stage annotation design. We first use low-parameter models to efficiently nar-row down candidate texts, and then apply a high-performance model only to the filtered subset for final verification of SCPI labels. For annotation, a prompt is used to determine whether a text contains SCPI. This prompt consists of an instruction, the SCPI definition, and the text Model Count Precision         

> Swallow 9,220 0.32 Gemma 72,262 0.11 Gemma (0.8) 15,722 0.16 Swallow + Gemma (0.8) 2,373 0.55

Table 1: Annotation results using low-parameter models 

to be annotated. The model returns an SCPI la-bel corresponding to the text. Additionally, if the text is identified as containing SCPI, a confidence score ranging from 0 to 1 is returned. Details of the prompt are described in Appendix B. If the model produces inappropriate output that includes information other than SCPI labels and confidence scores, we handle it differently depending on the model. For low-parameter models, such outputs are treated as non-SCPI. For a high-performance model, where inappropriate outputs are less fre-quent, we perform manual annotation to ensure label accuracy. 

4.3 Dataset Construction Experiment 

The corpus used to extract texts containing SCPI consisted of 2.61 million texts sampled from llm-jp-corpus-v3/ja/ja_cc/level0 3, a Japanese web corpus collected from Common Crawl. Each text had an average length of 2,474 characters. For person name recognition, we used the NER model 4, detecting names in 1.06 million texts. The performance of the NER model used for person name recognition is reported in Appendix C. Among the open-weight LLMs that support Japanese, we used Llama 3.1 Swallow 8B In-struct v0.2 (Swallow) (Fujii et al., 2024; Okazaki et al., 2024; Ma et al., 2025) and Gemma 2 9B IT (Gemma) (Gemma Team, 2024) for annotating texts in which names were detected. The number of detected texts containing SCPI and their precision, calculated based on manual review of 100 detection results, are shown in Table 1. Note that Gemma (0.8) selects texts with a confidence score of 0.8 or higher and Swallow + Gemma (0.8) selects texts that both models judge to be SCPI. Precision is cal-culated based on the condition that texts containing any SCPI are treated as positive examples, while texts without SCPI are treated as negative exam-ples. Swallow + Gemma (0.8) achieved the highest precision with 2,373 cases, which were adopted as              

> 3https://gitlab.llm-jp.nii.ac.jp/datasets/ llm-jp-corpus-v3/-/tree/main/ja/ja_cc/level0
> 4https://huggingface.co/llm-book/ bert-base-japanese-v3-ner-wikipedia-dataset
> Label Count
> race 89 creed 50 social status 6medical history 377 criminal record 76 crime victimization 42 disability 316 diagnostic information 9medical treatment 42 criminal proceedings 143 juvenile protection 1LGBT 65

Table 2: Breakdown of the resulting labels                      

> Label Precision Agree. κ
> medical history 0.845 0.905 0.648 criminal record 0.921 0.961 0.734 crime victimization 0.690 0.690 0.350 criminal proceedings 0.979 0.972 0.322 disability 0.953 0.962 0.586 Total 0.900 0.929 0.614

Table 3: Annotation quality evaluation (Agree.: agree-ment rate; κ: Cohen’s kappa) 

the result of the low-parameter models. We used gpt-oss-120b (OpenAI, 2025) as the high-performance model and applied it to the 2,373 candidate documents mentioned above. After man-ual correction of inappropriate outputs, 1,216 texts were identified as containing SCPI. During manual correction of inappropriate outputs, we observed a recurring group of cases, including references to sexual orientation and gender identity, that was not well captured by the original label set. We therefore introduced an additional category, labeled LGBT, for analysis. The breakdown of the resulting labels is shown in Table 2. 

4.4 Post-processing and Analysis of the Dataset 

As shown in Table 2, the only labels with over 100 instances collected were medical history, disability, and criminal proceedings. Criminal record, crime victimization, and criminal proceedings may over-lap and are difficult to classify accurately, and thus, we grouped them together as crime, resulting in a total of 261 instances. Accordingly, the categories used for classifier training were medical history (377), crime (261), and disability (316), for a total of 954 texts. The remaining SCPI categories were retained but not used for classifier training in this study because the number of collected instances was too small for robust training and evaluation. We conducted a manual evaluation of the anno-Label Count     

> medical history 377 crime 261 disability 316 non-SCPI 8,586
> Table 4: Breakdown of labels in the training dataset

tation quality of these 954 texts, and the results are presented in Table 3. Two annotators indepen-dently evaluated the labels, and the average preci-sion across annotators was computed. In addition, inter-annotator agreement (IAA) was measured us-ing agreement rate and Cohen’s kappa coefficient. Overall, the annotation quality was high, with an average precision of 0.900, an agreement rate of 0.929, and a Cohen’s κ of 0.614 across all labels, indicating substantial agreement. For crime victim-ization, precision and IAA were relatively lower, as the category includes boundary cases, such as large-scale events (e.g., war-related incidents) and cases that are less likely to be officially recognized or recorded as criminal offenses, including abuse and sexual harassment. The low κ value for crim-inal proceedings is mainly attributable to severe class imbalance, despite the high agreement rate. Based on the above results, we use 954 cases from medical history, crime, and disability as posi-tive examples to train the classifier described in the next sections. Negative examples were texts identi-fied by both Swallow and Gemma as non-SCPI, as shown in Figure 2. The proportion of texts contain-ing SCPI in the entire corpus is extremely low. If the training data reflects this proportion, the clas-sifier is likely to become biased toward negative examples. Therefore, as presented in Table 4, the positive examples were adjusted to constitute 1/10 of the training dataset. Diagnostic information and medical treatment are typically held by medical institutions, and are unlikely to appear in web-collected data. Moreover, due to the nature of the data, personal information regarding juvenile protection is generally not made public. As a result, such information is expected to be scarce on the web, and even if present, is likely categorized as crime. 

5 SCPI Classification 

5.1 Classification Methods 

The SCPI dataset described in the previous sec-tion is used to train an SCPI classifier. This clas-sifier categorizes the input text into one of four categories: medical history, crime, disability, or non-SCPI. Given that this classifier is applied to large-scale corpora, not only the performance but also its speed needs to be considered. Because full-corpus inference with LLMs is computationally expensive, we use LLMs only for high-quality an-notation and train lightweight models for efficient large-scale inference. We examined efficient tradi-tional machine learning models and a BERT-based Transformer model (Vaswani et al., 2017). 

5.2 Experiments 

To evaluate SCPI classification models, we perform cross-validation and manual evaluation on a large-scale corpus. We also examine model stacking to assess potential complementary effects across models. 

5.2.1 Individual Model Evaluation Model Description The 9,540 instances in Ta-ble 4 were used to train the classifier. We used two types of models: traditional machine learn-ing models and a Transformer model. The tradi-tional machine learning models were SVC from scikit-learn (Pedregosa et al., 2011), LGBMClassi-fier (LGBM) from lightgbm (Microsoft, 2017), and nn.Module (NN) from PyTorch (Ansel et al., 2024). The Transformer model was modernbert-ja-310m (ModernBERT) (Tsukagoshi et al., 2025), which is a BERT-based classifier. For text representation, we used vectorization techniques for all models except ModernBERT, which directly performs classification. Specifically, we used both lightweight approaches (Doc2Vec from gensim ( ˇ Reh˚ uˇ rek and Sojka, 2010), TfidfVec-torizer from scikit-learn (Pedregosa et al., 2011)) and a Transformer model (ruri-v3-310m (Tsuk-agoshi and Sasano, 2024), which is a Japanese em-bedding model). The resulting vectors are then fed into models for classification. The detailed settings for models and vector representations are provided in Section F.1. 

Cross-Validation Performance Evaluation Fig-ure 3 presents the results of 5-fold cross-validation on the training data. When class weight was set to None, no special adjustments were applied. Set-ting it to balanced automatically corrected class imbalance by adjusting weights based on the oc-currence frequency of each class. Precision and recall are calculated based on the condition that texts containing any SCPI are treated as positive None balanced None balanced None balanced None balanced None balanced          

> 0.0
> 0.1
> 0.2
> 0.3
> 0.4
> 0.5
> 0.6
> 0.7
> 0.8
> 0.9
> 1.0
> Score
> SVC NN LGBM SVC ModernBERT
> Doc2Vec TF-IDF Ruri ModernBERT
> Precision Recall F1

Figure 3: Cross-validation results for each base model on the training data 

examples, while texts without SCPI are treated as negative examples. All evaluation metrics were calculated as the average values across all folds. In this experiment, the F1 score is used as the pri-mary evaluation metric. However, since preventing SCPI from being overlooked is important, recall is prioritized over precision. The best-performing model was ModernBERT, with all metrics exceeding 0.95. The second-best model was SVC with Ruri. When comparing tradi-tional machine learning models, LGBM with TF-IDF had the best performance. Additionally, when the class weight was set to balanced, precision de-creased and recall improved. 

Manual Performance Evaluation To evaluate the practical performance, we manually assess the detection results obtained by applying models to a large-scale corpus. Here, the large-scale corpus refers to the 1.06 million Japanese web texts from llm-jp-corpus-v3 in which person names were de-tected by the NER model, as described in Section 4.3. To prevent data leakage, texts included in the final SCPI dataset were excluded from this large-scale evaluation. The detected texts are manually categorized as follows: “SCPI” for texts contain-ing SCPI, “Related” for texts that do not contain SCPI but include information related to medical history, crime, or disability (such as medical care or welfare for the disabled), and “Unrelated” for texts that do not contain SCPI or any related infor-mation. We evaluate better-performing traditional machine learning models (SVC and LGBM) and the Transformer model (ModernBERT), as iden-tified through cross-validation. In addition, we evaluate gpt-oss-120b in a zero-shot setting as a 

Figure 4: Processing speed for full-corpus inference 

baseline. Two annotators independently evaluated 50 texts for each label across all models. Table 5 shows the results of manual evalua-tion. Detailed evaluation setups are reported in Appendix D.2, and examples of extracted SCPI are provided in Appendix E. Because determining the absence of SCPI requires careful review of entire texts, agreement rate tends to be moderate. Gpt-oss-120b detected the largest proportion of “SCPI” instances. ModernBERT detects “SCPI” more frequently than SVC and LGBM, while the proportion of “SCPI” is consistently lower across all models than the precision reported in Figure 3. 

Processing Speed Comparison Finally, we com-pare the processing speed of each model. Based on the average processing speed of 10,000 texts, we estimate the total time required to process the entire corpus containing 184 million texts. The results are shown in Figure 4. As the models were not opti-mized, the results should be viewed as approximate indicators of performance trends. Vector Model Label Annotator1 Annotator2 Agree. SCPI Related Unrelated SCPI Related Unrelated                                                                                                                     

> Doc2Vec SVC (None) medical history 0.32 0.52 0.16 0.24 0.64 0.12 0.84 crime 0.36 0.52 0.12 0.28 0.60 0.12 0.66 disability 0.24 0.56 0.20 0.40 0.42 0.18 0.68 average 0.31 0.53 0.16 0.31 0.55 0.14 0.73 TF-IDF LGBM (balanced) medical history 0.16 0.76 0.08 0.14 0.78 0.08 0.86 crime 0.36 0.56 0.08 0.36 0.52 0.12 0.74 disability 0.16 0.62 0.22 0.16 0.78 0.06 0.76 average 0.23 0.65 0.13 0.22 0.69 0.09 0.79 -ModernBERT (None) medical history 0.38 0.54 0.08 0.32 0.64 0.04 0.86 crime 0.56 0.36 0.08 0.52 0.42 0.06 0.82 disability 0.48 0.50 0.02 0.52 0.48 0.00 0.86 average 0.47 0.47 0.06 0.45 0.51 0.03 0.85 -gpt-oss-120b medical history 0.62 0.24 0.14 0.56 0.30 0.14 0.76 crime 0.66 0.26 0.08 0.68 0.24 0.08 0.84 disability 0.84 0.08 0.08 0.82 0.14 0.04 0.86 average 0.71 0.19 0.10 0.69 0.23 0.09 0.82

Table 5: Results of SCPI extraction using classifiers (Agree.: agreement rate) 

Figure 5: Precision-Recall curves for base models 

Doc2Vec and TF-IDF were run on a single CPU core, while Ruri and ModernBERT were executed using a single GPU. Even without parallelization, classical models are approximately 4 to 50 times faster than Transformer models. Considering the cost difference between CPUs and GPUs as well as the potential for parallelization, the practical speed advantage in real-world applications could reach several tens to hundreds of times. For instance, LGBM with TF-IDF, when run on 8 CPU cores, can process the entire corpus within a day. In contrast, ModernBERT requires more than a month to process the same data, even with 8 GPUs. Because Transformer models impose sig-nificant computational and cost burdens, we adopt faster machine learning models in this study. 

5.2.2 Stacking Model Evaluation 

To perform stacking, the models with the highest F1 score were selected as the base models. Specifi-cally, the following three machine learning models                         

> Model Precision Recall F1
> SVC 0.942 0.633 0.757 NN 0.837 0.647 0.727 LGBM 0.893 0.812 0.851 SVC + NN 0.847 0.724 0.780 SVC + LGBM 0.869 0.869 0.869 LGBM + NN 0.816 0.892 0.852 SVC + LGBM + NN 0.815 0.900 0.855

Table 6: Stacking results 

were selected: • SVC: class weight = None, • NN: class weight = None, and • LGBM: class weight = balanced. Figure 5 shows Precision-Recall curves for base models. As shown in the figure, the precision is relatively high. Therefore, stacking is performed by taking the union of the identified results to improve recall. In other words, if any of the base models classifies the text as SCPI, it is considered SCPI. Table 6 presents the performance of the base models and the stacked models. The combination of SVC and LGBM achieved the highest F1 score. To further improve performance, both models were tuned with Optuna (Akiba et al., 2019), with the F1 score set as the optimization objective. The F1 score was calculated based on the condition that three SCPI categories – medical history, crime, and disability – are treated as positive examples, and non-SCPI is treated as negative examples. LGBM-Classifier cannot use this F1 score for the early stopping evaluation, which is essential for efficient training, so lgb.train was used instead. Model Precision Recall F1          

> SVC 0.913 0.732 0.812 LGBM 0.883 0.856 0.869 SVC + LGBM 0.845 0.911 0.877
> Table 7: Tuning results

Tuning results are presented in Table 7. The per-formance improved significantly compared to the default parameters. Although the F1 score did not increase substantially after stacking, recall, which is critical in this study, improved by 4.2%. The hyperparameters are provided in Section F.3. 

5.3 Analysis 

We analyze the classification performance and char-acteristic errors of each label. Figure 6 and Figure 7 show the proportions of predicted labels and gold labels for the tuned models. SVC tends to misclassify disability as non-SCPI more often than other labels. Among SCPI cate-gories, disability is frequently mislabeled as medi-cal history. In contrast, LGBM shows higher accu-racy in classifying disability labels than SVC, with a higher likelihood of correctly identifying disabil-ity as SCPI. However, confusion between medical history and disability remains consistent. Furthermore, we analyze the most influential words for each SCPI label in LGBM using SHAP values generated by TreeExplainer (Lundberg et al., 2020). Table 8 shows words with high absolute SHAP values translated from Japanese. Note that the table is not exact because some words cannot be translated. Although all the words in the table are within the top 15, it can be seen that many unrelated words are also included. 

5.4 Discussion 

The reason why the proportion of “SCPI” in Table 5 is lower than the precision in Figure 3 is likely because the current classifier can correctly identify SCPI-related category information but struggles to identify SCPI instances. Notably, the combined proportion of “SCPI” and “Related” matches the precision in Figure 3, suggesting that the classifier performs well in detecting SCPI-related category information, consistent with Figure 3. This gap may also be partly explained by the construction of negative examples. Because negative examples were selected based on agreement between two low-parameter models after NER-based filtering, this setting may introduce selection bias and lead to more optimistic cross-validation results. Based on this observation, it is expected that more accurate judgments can be achieved by ap-plying this classifier in the first stage to classify the SCPI-related category information, and then applying a second stage classifier to distinguish be-tween “SCPI” and “Related.” Because the number of texts is reduced by rough filtering in the first stage, it is possible to use a higher-performance model in a practical amount of time in the sec-ond stage. Although Transformer models detect a higher proportion of “SCPI” instances, the com-bined proportion of “SCPI” and “Related” remains comparable across models. For this purpose, fast traditional machine learning models are suitable for the first stage filtering, enabling scalable extraction of SCPI-related category information. In Section 5.3, both models had the tendency to confuse the labels medical history and disability. This is thought to be due to the high correlation between these two categories. Although a single label is assigned to each text in this study, in real-ity, there are texts with multiple labels, suggesting that the model was able to correctly identify them. SVC also had the characteristic of low accuracy in identifying disabilities. Since many texts identified as disabilities contained information on caregiving and child-rearing, it is thought that the model was not limited to disabilities, but had learned texts related to a wider range of welfare. Conversely, LGBM with TF-IDF had high accuracy in iden-tifying disabilities, which confirms that each vec-tor learns different features and complements each other. SHAP analysis revealed that many of the top-ranked features were semantically unrelated to the gold label, indicating room for further improve-ment. This issue arises because only a small portion of the training texts actually correspond to SCPI, while the majority are noise. To further improve performance, it is necessary to accurately extract the SCPI-relevant parts. However, SCPI requires both identifiable information and category informa-tion, which are often located far apart. In addition, it is necessary to determine whether the two ele-ments are actually related, which requires a deep understanding of their semantic relationship. Al-though it is extremely difficult to accurately extract the relevant parts using LLMs, a high-performance model may be able to handle this task. Though time and cost are intensive, manual annotation is a reliable fallback for addressing the issue. Figure 6: Normalized confusion matrix for SVC Figure 7: Normalized confusion matrix for LGBM         

> Label Related Words Unrelated Words
> medical history illness, treatment, hospital, cancer, symptom present, later, time crime suspicion, arrest, incident, trial, police wish, introduction, place, year disability disability, syndrome person, sport, tournament, car, word
> Table 8: Words with high absolute SHAP values

6 Conclusion and Future Work 

In this study, we constructed an SCPI dataset and an SCPI classifier, and confirmed its performance. Traditional machine learning models demonstrated high accuracy in detecting SCPI-related category information, indicating its usefulness in the first stage of filtering, which classifies SCPI together with other related information. In addition, it operates at a lower cost than classification using LLMs and Transformer models, demonstrating ad-vantages in terms of time and cost for processing large-scale corpora. To improve SCPI classification performance, we plan to extend the pipeline to handle PII other than names and use other labels that were not available in this study. We also plan to combine LLM-based annotation and manual annotation so that the two approaches complement each other, allowing us to capture SCPI that an LLM alone might miss and incorporate them back into the training data. 

Limitations 

In this study, we mainly focus on name-based per-sonal information when constructing the dataset, so this approach does not fully address SCPI in which individuals can be identified from informa-tion other than names, such as addresses and email addresses. Personal identification codes are also outside the scope of this research. These exclu-sions were motivated by the need to develop a filter for the most frequent pattern observed in Japanese web corpora containing a full name and sensitive categories. Although the corpus contains texts referring to SCPI categories such as race, creed, and social sta-tus, we did not evaluate the classifier’s performance on these categories in this study. In addition, during manual correction, we observed a recurring group of cases involving sexual orientation and gender identity. While these cases do not constitute SCPI categories under APPI, we treated them as an addi-tional category, labeled LGBT, for analysis. Since we also planned to outsource the manual annotation, we first prepared a pilot dataset to train classifiers that assist in collecting additional data for the categories not covered by the dataset de-scribed in this paper. For the race, creed categories, as well as the ad-ditional LGBT category, we enlarged the source dataset and constructed an additional pilot dataset using parts of the original extraction pipeline com-bined with manual annotation. In contrast, even after expanding the source dataset, we still lacked sufficient texts for social status; therefore, we con-structed a pilot dataset by extracting candidate sen-tences for this category using pattern matching and manual annotation. The classifiers trained on these supplementary data were prepared exclusively for making an an-notation dataset so they were optimized with pre-cision as the primary objective. Because such a precision-oriented model falls outside the scope of this paper—which focuses on detecting SCPI—we do not discuss them further. Additionally, since the dataset is constructed us-ing LLM-based annotations, there is a limitation: any SCPI that cannot be detected by an LLM can-not be recognized as SCPI by the classifier. 

Ethical Considerations 

This research meets the ethical standards of the affiliated institution and has been conducted appro-priately. In this study, we detect SCPI in the pub-lished corpus. The collected data will be used only by the research team and will not be made public. As described in Section 2.2, this study is conducted for academic research purposes by an academic institution, and therefore falls under the exception provision of APPI Article 18, which allows the ac-quisition and processing of SCPI without obtaining the consent of the individual. SCPI annotation is performed using LLMs. All models are run in a strictly local environment, where no data leaves our infrastructure. The use policy for each LLM used in Section 4.3 requires that the handling of SCPI be in compli-ance with applicable laws, and this research com-plies with these terms (Meta Platforms, Inc., 2024; Google, 2024). While this research aims to promote privacy pro-tection, we acknowledge that the trained SCPI clas-sifier may also be misused to identify and extract SCPI from corpora for malicious purposes. There-fore, the decision to publicly release the trained model will be made with great caution, considering potential misuse, social impact, and legal compli-ance. Moreover, while there are plans to outsource manual annotation, they will comply with laws and regulations and handle the data with the utmost care. 

References 

Takuya Akiba, Shotaro Sano, Toshihiko Yanase, Takeru Ohta, and Masanori Koyama. 2019. Optuna: A next-generation hyperparameter optimization framework. In Proceedings of the 25th ACM SIGKDD Interna-tional Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining .Jason Ansel, Edward Yang, Horace He, Natalia Gimelshein, Animesh Jain, Michael Voznesensky, Bin Bao, Peter Bell, David Berard, Evgeni Burovski, Geeta Chauhan, Anjali Chourdia, Will Constable, Alban Desmaison, Zachary DeVito, Elias Ellison, Will Feng, Jiong Gong, Michael Gschwind, and 30 others. 2024. PyTorch 2: Faster Machine Learning Through Dynamic Python Bytecode Transformation and Graph Compilation. In 29th ACM International Conference on Architectural Support for Program-ming Languages and Operating Systems, Volume 2 (ASPLOS ’24) . ACM. California Legislature. 2024. California civil code sec-tion 1798.140. Accessed 2025-05-11. European Parliament and Council of the European Union. 2016. Regulation (eu) 2016/679 of the euro-pean parliament and of the council of 27 april 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free move-ment of such data, and repealing directive 95/46/ec (general data protection regulation). Accessed 2025-05-11. Kazuki Fujii, Taishi Nakamura, Mengsay Loem, Hi-roki Iida, Masanari Ohi, Kakeru Hattori, Hirai Shota, Sakae Mizuki, Rio Yokota, and Naoaki Okazaki. 2024. Continual pre-training for cross-lingual llm adaptation: Enhancing japanese language capabili-ties. In Proceedings of the First Conference on Lan-guage Modeling , COLM, page (to appear), University of Pennsylvania, USA. Gaia Gambarelli, Aldo Gangemi, and Rocco Tripodi. 2023. Is your model sensitive? spedac: A new re-source for the automatic classification of sensitive personal data. IEEE Access , 11:10864–10880. Gemma Team. 2024. Gemma. Google. 2024. Gemma prohibited use policy. Accessed 2024-11-08. Jie Huang, Hanyin Shao, and Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang. 2022. Are large pre-trained language models leaking your personal information? In Findings of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2022 ,pages 2038–2047, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics. Pierre-Carl Langlais, Carlos Rosas Hinostroza, Mattia Nee, Catherine Arnett, Pavel Chizhov, Eliot Krzystof Jones, Irène Girard, David Mach, Anastasia Stasenko, and Ivan P. Yamshchikov. 2025. Common corpus: The largest collection of ethical data for llm pre-training. Preprint , arXiv:2506.01732. Scott M. Lundberg, Gabriel Erion, Hugh Chen, Alex DeGrave, Jordan M. Prutkin, Bala Nair, Ronit Katz, Jonathan Himmelfarb, Nisha Bansal, and Su-In Lee. 2020. From local explanations to global understand-ing with explainable ai for trees. Nature Machine Intelligence , 2(1):2522–5839. Youmi Ma, Sakae Mizuki, Kazuki Fujii, Taishi Naka-mura, Masanari Ohi, Hinari Shimada, Taihei Sh-iotani, Koshiro Saito, Koki Maeda, Kakeru Hattori, Takumi Okamoto, Shigeki Ishida, Rio Yokota, Hi-roya Takamura, and Naoaki Okazaki. 2025. Building instruction-tuning datasets from human-written in-structions with open-weight large language models. 

Preprint , arXiv:2503.23714. Meta Platforms, Inc. 2024. Llama 3.1 acceptable use policy. Accessed 2024-11-08. Microsoft. 2017. Lightgbm. Version = 4.6.0. Ministry of Justice (Japan). 2017. Cabinet order to enforce the act on the protection of personal infor-mation (translated version). Accessed 2025-05-11. Only the original Japanese texts of the laws and reg-ulations have legal effect, and the translations are to be used solely as reference materials to aid in the understanding of Japanese laws and regulations. Ministry of Justice (Japan). 2023. Act on the protec-tion of personal information (translated version). Ac-cessed 2025-05-11. Only the original Japanese texts of the laws and regulations have legal effect, and the translations are to be used solely as reference materi-als to aid in the understanding of Japanese laws and regulations. Naoaki Okazaki, Kakeru Hattori, Hirai Shota, Hiroki Iida, Masanari Ohi, Kazuki Fujii, Taishi Nakamura, Mengsay Loem, Rio Yokota, and Sakae Mizuki. 2024. Building a large japanese web corpus for large lan-guage models. In Proceedings of the First Confer-ence on Language Modeling , COLM, page (to ap-pear), University of Pennsylvania, USA. Team Olmo, :, Allyson Ettinger, Amanda Bertsch, Bailey Kuehl, David Graham, David Heineman, Dirk Groeneveld, Faeze Brahman, Finbarr Timbers, Hamish Ivison, Jacob Morrison, Jake Poznanski, Kyle Lo, Luca Soldaini, Matt Jordan, Mayee Chen, Michael Noukhovitch, Nathan Lambert, and 50 oth-ers. 2025. Olmo 3. Preprint , arXiv:2512.13961. OpenAI. 2025. gpt-oss-120b & gpt-oss-20b model card. 

Preprint , arXiv:2508.10925. F. Pedregosa, G. Varoquaux, A. Gramfort, V. Michel, B. Thirion, O. Grisel, M. Blondel, P. Prettenhofer, R. Weiss, V. Dubourg, J. Vanderplas, A. Passos, D. Cournapeau, M. Brucher, M. Perrot, and E. Duch-esnay. 2011. Scikit-learn: Machine learning in Python. Journal of Machine Learning Research ,12:2825–2830. Personal Information Protection Commission (Japan). 2023. Notices and warnings regarding the use of ai generation services. Accessed 2026-04-14. Michael Petrolini, Stefano Cagnoni, and Monica Mor-donini. 2022. Automatic detection of sensitive data using transformer- based classifiers. Future Internet ,14(8). Radim ˇ Reh˚ uˇ rek and Petr Sojka. 2010. Software Frame-work for Topic Modelling with Large Corpora. In 

Proceedings of the LREC 2010 Workshop on New Challenges for NLP Frameworks , pages 45–50, Val-letta, Malta. ELRA. Luca Soldaini, Rodney Kinney, Akshita Bhagia, Dustin Schwenk, David Atkinson, Russell Authur, Ben Bogin, Khyathi Chandu, Jennifer Dumas, Yanai Elazar, Valentin Hofmann, Ananya Jha, Sachin Ku-mar, Li Lucy, Xinxi Lyu, Nathan Lambert, Ian Mag-nusson, Jacob Morrison, Niklas Muennighoff, and 17 others. 2024. Dolma: an open corpus of three trillion tokens for language model pretraining research. In 

Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 15725–15788, Bangkok, Thai-land. Association for Computational Linguistics. Nishant Subramani, Sasha Luccioni, Jesse Dodge, and Margaret Mitchell. 2023. Detecting personal infor-mation in training corpora: an analysis. In Proceed-ings of the 3rd Workshop on Trustworthy Natural Language Processing (TrustNLP 2023) , pages 208– 220, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics. Hayato Tsukagoshi, Shengzhe Li, Aki-hiko Fukuchi, and Tomohide Shibata. 2025. ModernBERT-Ja. https:// huggingface.co/collections/sbintuitions/ modernbert-ja-67b68fe891132877cf67aa0a .Hayato Tsukagoshi and Ryohei Sasano. 2024. Ruri: Japanese General Text Embeddings. Preprint ,arXiv:2409.07737. Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Ł ukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all you need. In Advances in Neural Information Pro-cessing Systems , volume 30. Curran Associates, Inc. Qingjie Zhang, Han Qiu, Di Wang, Yiming Li, Tianwei Zhang, Wenyu Zhu, Haiqin Weng, Liu Yan, and Chao Zhang. 2025. A benchmark for semantic sensitive information in llms outputs. In The Thirteenth Inter-national Conference on Learning Representations .

A SCPI Definitions and Label Descriptions Used in Annotation 

The items of SCPI are defined in detail in the guide-lines. The translated summary below corresponds to the SCPI definition and label descriptions used in the annotation prompts in Appendix B. For read-ability, we present the shared definitions here sepa-rately rather than repeating them in each prompt. 

A.1 SCPI Definition 

Special care-required personal information refers to personal information that requires special care so as not to cause unjust discrimination, prejudice or other disadvantages. It includes information related to the following items (1 to 11). However, informa-tion that merely suggests the information in items 1 to 11 (e.g., information related to the purchase or borrowing of books on religion) is not considered special care-required personal information. A.2 Label Description race : race, descent, and national or ethnic origin, excluding nationality or skin color 

creed : an individual’s fundamental beliefs, in-cluding both ideology and faith 

social status : a position inherently tied to an in-dividual’s situations, which cannot be easily changed, excluding occupational status or ed-ucational background (e.g., being born out of wedlock or being from a Buraku community) 

medical history : a history of having a particular illness (e.g. cancer, schizophrenia, etc.) 

criminal record : a confirmed criminal convic-tion 

crime victimization : the physical, mental and fi-nancial damage caused by a crime 

disability : information on disabilities, including physical, intellectual, mental, developmental, or illness-related disabilities 

diagnostic information : results of health check-ups and other tests, including genetic tests, that reveal a person’s health condition 

medical treatment : information obtained from health guidance, medical treatment, or dis-pensing of medication, including the fact that a person received such guidance, treatment, or dispensing 

criminal proceedings : the fact that a criminal proceeding has been conducted for a person as a suspect or defendant, excluding question-ing or witness examination conducted for the investigation of another person 

juvenile protection : the fact that a procedure was conducted for a juvenile delinquent in a juve-nile protection case 

B Prompt Details 

The annotation prompts consisted of task instruc-tions, the SCPI definition and label descriptions summarized in Appendix A, output constraints, and the input text. This appendix describes the task-specific instruction design of each prompt. 

B.1 Prompt for Low-Parameter Models 

For low-parameter models, accuracy tended to de-crease when annotation was performed in a single process. To address this issue, annotation was per-formed in three stages below.       

> Prompt 1: SCPI detection
> Analyze the input text and determine whether it contains SCPI. •If it does, output the corresponding category label (1–11) together with a confidence score (0–1). • If it does not, output only 0.
> Prompt 2: Name association
> Analyze the input text and determine whether it contains a person name associated with SCPI. • If it does, output only 1. • If it does not, output only 0. • If the text does not contain SCPI, output only 0.
> Prompt 3: Identifiable living individual check
> Determine whether the following text contains a full name that identifies a living individual. • Output 1 if it does, and 0 otherwise.
> Notes:
> •A full name refers only to a form in which both the family name and given name are present. •Stage names and pen names are also treated as full names if they can identify a specific individual. •A family name alone or a given name alone is not treated as a full name. •Names of fictional characters and deceased individu-als are not treated as full names. •Romanized or katakana-rendered pseudonyms are not treated as full names.

B.2 Prompt for gpt-oss-120b 

gpt-oss-120b maintained high accuracy even when annotation was performed in a single process. Therefore, the annotation was executed in a sin-gle run. Additionally, this model is capable of accurately handling multiple instructions. Lever-aging this capability, instructions were added to the prompt to determine whether the individual as-sociated with the SCPI is merely a related party, compared to the prompt presented in the previous section. Below, we present the instruction part of the prompt. Label Annotator1 Annotator2 Agree. κ

SCPI Name missing Not sensitive SCPI Name missing Not sensitive 

medical history 0.862 0.103 0.034 0.828 0.135 0.037 0.905 0.648 criminal record 0.921 0.039 0.039 0.921 0.066 0.013 0.961 0.734 crime victimization 0.714 0.143 0.143 0.667 0.167 0.167 0.690 0.350 criminal proceedings 0.972 0.021 0.007 0.986 0.014 0.000 0.972 0.322 disability 0.965 0.019 0.016 0.940 0.022 0.038 0.962 0.586 Total 0.911 0.060 0.029 0.889 0.075 0.036 0.929 0.614 

Table 9: Detailed annotation quality evaluation (Agree.: agreement rate; κ: Cohen’s kappa) 

Instructions for gpt-oss-120b Step 1: Analyze the input text and determine whether it contains SCPI. • If it does, proceed to Step 2. • If it does not, output only 0. 

Step 2: Determine whether the text contains the full name of the person who is the subject of the SCPI. • If the person is deceased, output 0. Also output 0 if the person is a character from a movie or novel. • If only an initial or a given name is present, output 0. • If the full name of the person who is the subject of the SCPI is present, proceed to Step 3. • If the full name of the person who is the subject of the SCPI is not present, output only 0. 

Step 3: Determine whether the person who is the subject of the SCPI is merely a related party rather than the actual data subject (e.g., a doctor, professor, or supporter of a person with a disability). • If the person is only a related party, output only 0. • If the person is not a related party but the actual data subject, output the corresponding category label (1– 11) together with a confidence score (0–1). 

C NER Model Performance 

On the Japanese corpus KWDLC 5 annotated with named entities, using the same NER model em-ployed in our experiments, person name recog-nition achieved 0.866 precision and 0.951 recall. Most false negatives corresponded to fictional, lexi-calized, or non-referential name expressions rather than identifiable individuals. 

D Manual Evaluation 

D.1 SCPI Dataset 

In the manual evaluation of the SCPI dataset, texts were classified as “SCPI” if they contain SCPI, as “Name missing” if they contain sensitive informa-tion but do not include identifiable personal names, 

> 5

https://github.com/ku-nlp/KWDLC Does the text contain sensitive data     

> about an identifiable individual?
> Does the text contain sensitive data without
> a fully identifiable individual?
> Does the text contain category -related data
> without sensitive personal data?
> SCPI
> NO
> NO
> YES
> YES
> YES
> Name missing
> Not sensitive -
> Category related
> NO Not sensitive -
> Unrelated

Figure 8: Manual validation flow 

and as “Not sensitive” if they do not contain sen-sitive information. Detailed results are shown in Table 9. 

D.2 SCPI Classifier 

In the manual evaluation of the SCPI classifier, the proportion of “SCPI” instances was low. Therefore, compared to the three-way classification used for the SCPI dataset, the “Not sensitive” category was further divided into “Category related” and “Unre-lated.” In this evaluation, our focus is on SCPI de-tection performance; therefore, “SCPI” and “Name missing” instances are evaluated irrespective of spe-cific categories. In contrast, for “Category related” instances, only information related to the target cat-egory is considered. The detailed evaluation flow is shown in Figure 8. From a legal perspective, cases in which indi-viduals are not identifiable do not constitute SCPI. Accordingly, in Table 5, the “Name missing” and “Not sensitive-Category related” were merged into “Related.” 

E Examples of Extracted SCPI 

We present anonymized SCPI excerpts extracted from corpus texts below. All names are fictitious. • medical history: In 2013, guitarist Taro Ya-mada announced that he had a tongue tumor at the age of 35. Model Optimized Hyperparameters (by Optuna)   

> LGBM n_estimators=7100, learning_rate=0.073, num_leaves=1430, max_depth=4, min_child_samples=37, subsample=0.974, colsample_bytree=0.650, reg_alpha=0.034, reg_lambda=0.0037 SVC C=3.948
> Table 10: Hyperparameters optimized by Optuna

• crime: The suspect arrested is Yamada Taro, a chiropractor living in XX City, Tokyo. • disability: Yamada Taro became paralyzed from the waist down in an accident. Six years ago, Taro was forced to live in a wheelchair due to a freak accident. 

F Experiment Configuration 

F.1 Model and Embedding Settings 

All experiments in Section 5 were conducted with the random seed set to 42. All hyperparameters of the traditional machine learning models were set to default values except for random_state. SVC used the RBF kernel, and the NN model was a two-layer feedforward neural network with 64 hidden units. For the Transformer model ModernBERT, the version trained with class_weight="balanced" was trained for 10 epochs, while the version with class_weight="None" was trained for 9 epochs. For the embedding methods, Doc2Vec was trained on 100,000 documents from the corpus that were identified as containing names using an NER model. The training was performed for 10 epochs with vector_size set to 100 and window size to 5. TfidfVectorizer from scikit-learn was configured with 2,000 unigram features. 

F.2 Computing Resources 

Traditional machine learning models (SVC, LGBM, and NN), as well as feature extraction (Doc2Vec, TF-IDF), were run on one CPU core of an Intel Xeon Platinum 8368 processor (2.4GHz). ModernBERT and Ruri were executed on a sin-gle NVIDIA A100 GPU (40GB), while gpt-oss-120b was executed on eight NVIDIA H200 GPUs (141GB each). 

F.3 Hyperparameter Optimization 

The hyperparameters optimized by Optuna are shown in Table 10. Non-optimized parameters such as random_state, kernel, or objective were set manually and omitted from the table.