Title: MemGuard: Preventing Memory Contamination in Long-Term Memory-Augmented Large Language Models

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.28009v1

Published Time: Thu, 28 May 2026 00:43:40 GMT

Number of Pages: 29

Markdown Content:
## MEM GUARD : Preventing Memory Contamination in Long-Term Memory-Augmented Large Language Models 

Hyeonjeong Ha 1, Jeonghwan Kim 1, Cheng Qian 1,Jiayu Liu 1, William M. Campbell 3, Yue Wu 3,

Yuji Zhang 1, Kathleen McKeown 2, Dilek Hakkani-Tür 1, Heng Ji 11University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, 2Columbia University, 3Capital One 

{hh38, hengji}@illinois.edu 

Abstract 

Memory-augmented large language models ex-tend reasoning beyond a fixed context window by maintaining long-term memory across in-teractions. However, existing memory systems often collapse stable user facts, episodic events, and behavioral rules into a shared space, al-lowing functionally distinct memories to be retrieved and used as interchangeable evidence. We identify this failure mode as heterogeneous memory contamination , where context-specific events become overgeneralized claims, or se-mantically relevant but functionally incompati-ble memories mislead generation. To this end, we introduce MEM GUARD , a type-aware mem-ory framework that preserves functional mem-ory boundaries during memory construction and retrieval. It assigns each memory an ex-plicit functional role at write time, maintains relations across type-isolated memories, and selectively composes evidence only from nec-essary memory types, reducing contamination from irrelevant or functionally incompatible ev-idence. Across hallucination and long-horizon conversation benchmarks, M EM GUARD im-proves memory reliability by up to 28.27% while retrieving up to 5.8 × fewer memory to-kens than prior methods. These results suggest that reliable long-term reasoning depends on principled organization and selective use of het-erogeneous memory. 

1 Introduction 

Recent memory-augmented large language mod-els (LLMs) move beyond single-context reasoning by persisting knowledge across interactions and reusing it over long time horizons (Wu et al., 2024; Du et al., 2024; Ma et al., 2024; Park et al., 2023; Shridhar et al., 2020; Maharana et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2025). This capability is central to personal-ization and long-horizon reasoning (Zhong et al., 2024; Packer et al., 2023; Chhikara et al., 2025; Wang and Chen, 2025; Xu et al., 2025; Yan et al., 2025), but it also creates a new reliability risk: once noisy, unsupported, or misstructured knowledge is written to memory, it can be repeatedly retrieved and reused. Thus, hallucinations do not arise only at generation time; they can accumulate across the memory cycle, including writing and retrieval. A key source of risk is that conversational mem-ory is functionally heterogeneous: stable facts, event-specific observations, and behavioral rules may be topically related while serving different evidential roles. For example, a memory system may store: (i) a semantic constraint, [Ibuprofen can trigger symptoms for people with asthma.] ; (ii) an episodic observation, [User’s friend took ibuprofen for headache and felt better.] ; and (iii) a proce-dural recommendation, [Given headaches, recom-mend common over-the-counter pain relievers.] .Although these memories concern the same topic, they should not be used interchangeably within the same retrieval context. When we disregard the functional distinctions among the evidence, hetero-geneous memories can interfere during memory writing and retrieval, a failure mode we refer to as heterogeneous memory contamination (§3). As illustrated in Figure 1, the contamination can occur when an episodic observation is overgener-alized into an unsupported fact for the user, such as [Ibuprofen is effective for headaches.] , while omitting the asthma-related constraint at write-time. At retrieval time, when a query such as [I have a headache now. Should I take ibuprofen?] retrieves the episodic success case and procedural recom-mendation due to topical similarity, but under-ranks the semantic constraint required for safe reasoning. The model may then compose these memories into an unsupported answer (Hong et al., 2024; Ha et al., 2025; Jin et al., 2025; Park and Lee, 2024). Our preliminary analysis on LoCoMo (Maha-rana et al., 2024) supports this view (§3): unverifia-bility errors , where the model provides responses despite the presence of insufficient evidence, rather 1            

> arXiv:2605.28009v1 [cs.CL] 27 May 2026 Write -Time Contamination Retrieval -Time Contamination Downstream Composition Failure
> I have asthma. Are
> there pain relievers I
> should be careful with?
> Ibuprofen can trigger
> symptoms for people
> with asthma.
> Glad to hear that.
> My friend took ibuprofen
> for a headache and felt
> better.
> What should I usually
> do when I have a
> headache?
> Consider common over -
> the -counter pain relievers
> while accounting for
> personal constraints.
> Semantic Memory
> Ibuprofen can trigger symptoms
> for people with asthma.
> Episodic Memory
> User’s friend took ibuprofen for
> a headache and felt better.
> Procedural Memory
> For headaches, recommend
> common over -the -counter pain
> relievers.
> Contamination
> Ibuprofen is effective for
> headaches.
> Episodic àSemantic
> Overgeneralization
> Contamination
> For headaches, recommend
> ibuprofen.
> Procedural àSemantic
> Overwrite (Constraint omitted)
> User Query:
> I have a headache now.
> Should I take ibuprofen?
> Ibuprofen belongs to NSAIDs.
> User’s friend took ibuprofen
> for a headache and felt
> better.
> For headaches, recommend
> common over -the -counter
> pain relievers.
> Ibuprofen can trigger
> symptoms for people with
> asthma.
> (needed but under -ranked)
> Distraction
> Top -K Retrieved Memories
> (Topical Similarity)
> Type Contamination Cross -Type Interference
> Ihave a headache now.
> Should I take ibuprofen?
> Ibuprofen is always safe and
> effective for headache.
> Can I take ibuprofen safely with my
> current asthma medication?
> Ibuprofen is always safe and
> effective for headache.
> Hallucination (Factuality/Unverifiability)
> Factuality Error
> Relevant evidence exists but is ignored.
> ”Ibuprofen can trigger symptoms for
> people with asthma .”
> Unverifiability Error
> Retrieved context is insufficient to answer.
> “No available information on
> user’s current medication”

Figure 1: Heterogeneous memory contamination. Weak functional boundaries cause heterogeneous memories, including semantic constraints, episodic observations, and procedural guidance, to be stored, retrieved, and composed as interchangeable evidence. This contamination propagates across the memory writing and retrieval, leading to persistent hallucinations and degraded reasoning quality. 

than abstaining, are predominantly associated with write-time contamination (97.7%), while factuality errors , where the answer is supported by the conver-sation history but the model generates an incorrect response, are frequently associated with retrieval-time contamination (63.8%). However, existing memory-augmented LLMs rarely treat memory-type boundaries as a reliability mechanism. They either treat it as a monolithic memory store and retrieve via semantic similarity (Packer et al., 2023; Zhong et al., 2024), or introduce structural vari-ations to the memory (Ye et al., 2025; Hu et al., 2026; Jiang et al., 2026; Xu et al., 2025; Li et al., 2025; Yu et al., 2026; Yan et al., 2025) to stop at op-timizing memory utility or retrieval effectiveness. To address this gap, we propose MEM GUARD ,a type-aware memory framework that treats func-tional boundaries as reliability constraints across memory writing, retrieval, and evidence composi-tion. This design is motivated by cognitive theo-ries of long-term memory, which posit function-ally specialized systems that can be selectively recruited and composed according to the reason-ing goal (Tulving et al., 1972; Eustache and Des-granges, 2008). M EM GUARD operationalizes this principle for memory-augmented LLMs by sepa-rating memories according to their functional roles and controlling how they are later retrieved and composed. At write time, it performs type-aware memory reorganization , decomposing conversa-tional content into type-specific atomic memories and recording their dependencies in a relational knowledge graph (§4.1). At retrieval time, it per-forms dynamic memory routing , selecting memory types compatible with the query and composing evidence through the relational graph (§4.1). By disentangling functional distinctions during writing and enforcing type-compatible evidence composi-tion during retrieval, M EM GUARD reduces type contamination and cross-type interference, thereby mitigating persistent hallucinations in memory-augmented LLMs. Experiments on memory hallucination bench-marks and long-horizon conversational tasks show that M EM GUARD substantially improves mem-ory reliability. On HaluMem (Chen et al., 2025), MEM GUARD achieves 89.53% (+28.27%) anti-hallucination accuracy and 71.49% (+9.38%) mem-ory update correctness. On LoCoMo (Maharana et al., 2024), our framework retains competitive per-formance against state-of-the-art methods, while retrieving 21% fewer memory tokens . These results indicate that selectively retrieving the right memory types by preserving functional boundaries is more effective than scaling retrieval indiscriminately. To summarize, our contributions are threefold: • We identify heterogeneous memory contamina-tion as a key source of persistent hallucination, caused by weak functional memory boundaries. • We propose M EM GUARD , a type-aware memory framework that uses memory types to structure memory writing, route retrieval, and guide evi-dence composition. • We show that M EM GUARD improves halluci-nation robustness while maintaining utility and with fewer retrieved memory tokens. 22 Related Work 

2.1 Memory-Augmented LLMs 

Memory-augmented LLMs support sustained interactions and long-horizon reasoning, with existing methods broadly falling into four paradigms (Table 4). Flat semantic memory stores conversational chunks or memories in vector storage and retrieves them via semantic similarity in retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) (Zhong et al., 2024; Chhikara et al., 2025; Ye et al., 2025). Although efficient, these methods treat history as an unordered set of propositions, making heterogeneous facts prone to inadvertent merging and write-time interference. Structured and graph-based memory models the relationships between events, entities, and concepts (Jiang et al., 2026; Rasmussen et al., 2025; Gutiérrez et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2026), but often retrieves mixed episodic and semantic nodes via similarity or topological search, leaving systems vulnerable to retrieval-time con-tamination. Cognitive-inspired and hierarchical memory adopts human-like divisions (Packer et al., 2023; Kang et al., 2025; Hu et al., 2026; Li et al., 2025; Sumers et al., 2023), such as working, episodic, semantic, and procedural memories, yet commonly relies on static type assignment and mixed retrieval, weakening boundaries between memory types. Agentic and dynamic memory 

transforms static storage with context-adaptive, model-driven decisions (Xu et al., 2025; Yan et al., 2025; Yu et al., 2026), but without explicit boundary preservation, it may amplify write-time contamination and uncontrolled associative loops. In contrast, M EM GUARD addresses the above-mentioned limitations by preserving the functional boundaries throughout the memory lifecycle. 

2.2 Reliability in Memory-Augmented LLMs 

Hallucination remains a central challenge in memory-augmented LLMs on long-horizon con-versation tasks. Prior work on RAG shows that noisy, conflicting, or weakly relevant retrieved con-texts can degrade consistency and induce halluci-nations (Park and Lee, 2024; Hong et al., 2024; Ha et al., 2025; Liu et al., 2026). These risks amplify when retrieval operates over accumulated histories and persistent memory stores. HaluMem (Chen et al., 2025) shows that hallucinations can emerge across the memory lifecycle, including writing, re-trieval, and reasoning, where incorrect knowledge can persist and reinforce erroneous response over  

> (a) Factuality error. (b) Unverifiability error.
> Figure 2: Error analysis across distinct hallucinations.

time. Others examine retrieval interference and conversational drift from noisy or conflicting mem-ory retrieval (Wu et al., 2025; Xu et al., 2025). However, existing methods mostly mitigate hal-lucination after unreliable knowledge has been stored or retrieved, overlooking the heterogeneity 

of knowledge items that differ in memory types. 

3 Heterogeneous Memory Contamination 

Formulation Conversational memory is inher-ently heterogeneous, spanning episodic events, se-mantic facts, and procedural behaviors that serve distinct roles in downstream reasoning. When these functional boundaries are weak, topically related but functionally incompatible memories may be in-correctly updated, retrieved, or composed together. As a result, transient events may be stored as stable facts, or anecdotal evidence can override explicit constraints. We refer to this failure mode as hetero-geneous memory contamination : the degradation of memory reliability caused by insufficient func-tional separation among memory types. We characterize this contamination across the memory lifecycle (Figure 1): Write-time contami-nation occurs when memory construction stores in-complete, outdated, fabricated, or overgeneralized knowledge, causing unsupported content to persist. 

Retrieval-time contamination occurs when se-mantically related but functionally unsuitable mem-ories are retrieved together, introducing cross-type noise that obscures the evidence needed for the query. Composition failures are typically down-stream consequences of write- or retrieval-time contamination: the model incorrectly integrates contaminated or insufficient evidence, allowing ir-relevant, conflicting, or weakly grounded memories to distort the final response. 

Analysis We conduct a systematic error analysis on LoCoMo (Maharana et al., 2024). We catego-rize failures into (i) factuality errors , where the correct answer is recoverable from the conversa-3tion but the system generates an incorrect response, and (ii) unverifiability errors , where the conver-sation lacks sufficient evidence, and the model should abstain but instead answers, following prior work (Huang et al., 2025). Each failure is annotated by its memory-lifecycle source using GPT-5.2 ; full taxonomy definitions and annotation details are provided in Appendix B. The results reveal distinct stage-wise patterns (Figure 2). Unverifiability errors are predominantly associated with write-time contamination (97.7%), indicating that unsupported or overgeneralized knowledge is often introduced before retrieval oc-curs. In contrast, factuality errors are associated with retrieval-time contamination (63.8%), where relevant evidence exists but is missed or under-ranked by memories from incompatible types. Across both error types, the common mechanism is cross-type interference : semantically plausible but functionally incompatible memories can make unanswerable queries appear answerable, or can compete with the evidence needed for correct an-swers. These findings show that persistent mem-ory failures arise from weak functional separation among heterogeneous memory types. This moti-vates M EM GUARD ’s design: preserving functional boundaries through write-time memory reorganiza-tion and dynamic retrieval-time routing. 

4 MEM GUARD 

4.1 Write-Time Memory Reorganization 

To mitigate heterogeneous memory contamination, MEM GUARD reorganizes conversational memory before storage. Given a conversation D, the write-time procedure converts raw dialogue into type-specific memory atoms, verifies their coverage, links related atoms through a relational graph, and stores them in type-isolated memory stores. This design enforces functional separation at the stor-age level while preserving explicit dependencies needed for downstream retrieval and reasoning. Formally, M EM GUARD maintains type-isolated memory stores: M = {M τ }τ ∈T , where T =

{semantic , episodic , procedural }, and a rela-tional knowledge graph G = ( V, E), where nodes correspond to memory atoms and edges encode typed dependencies among them. 

Type-Aware Knowledge Decomposition The LLM decomposes D into a set of non-overlapping memory atoms A = Decompose( D) = {aj }Nj=1 .

Each atom captures a single memory unit and is assigned exactly one functional type: 

aj = ( title j , details j , τ j , t j ), τj ∈ T ,

where title j is the short description of aj , details j

includes actual memory content, and tj is the ab-solute timestamp derived from the conversation. The single-type constraint prevents heterogeneous knowledge from being compressed into a shared memory representation. 

Self-Verified Extraction Because a single ex-traction pass may miss relevant information, M EM -GUARD applies a self-verification step before writ-ing. Given the conversation D and the initial atom set A, the verifier identifies information in D that is not covered by any atom in A. Let ∆( D, A ) denote the recovered missing atoms. The final atom set is 

A′ = A ∪ ∆( D, A ). Recovered atom must satisfy the same constraints as the initial decomposition: each must be atomic, non-overlapping, and tied to a single memory type. 

Relational Knowledge Graph Although atoms are isolated by type, downstream reasoning of-ten requires composing related facts, events, and procedures. To preserve such dependencies with-out merging heterogeneous content, M EM GUARD 

constructs a directed typed graph over the atom set: V = {vj | vj ≡ aj , a j ∈ A′}. Edges en-code typed semantic relations: E = {(vi, v j , r ) |

vi, v j ∈ V , r ∈ R} , where the relation type r is se-lected from the relation taxonomy. A directed edge 

(vi, v j , r ) is added when atom ai relates to atom 

aj under relation r. For retrieval-time traversal, MEM GUARD also stores inverse edges: 

(vi, v j , r ) ∈ E ⇒ (vj , v i, inverse_ r) ∈ E .

Thus, G preserves cross-atom dependencies, while the atom contents remain type-isolated. 

Type-Isolated Memory Writing Finally, each atom aj ∈ A′ is routed to its corresponding typed stores Mτj . The atom is compared only with existing top-N (we set N = 20 ) relevant mem-ories in the same store (i.e., type-local compari-son), and the model assigns one write operation: 

oj ∈ { ADD , UPDATE , SKIP }. ADD inserts a new mem-ory, UPDATE revises an existing memory within the same type-specific store, and SKIP discards redun-dant or low-value atoms. By restricting deduplica-tion and updates to Mτj , M EM GUARD prevents functionally distinct memories from overwriting 4Conversation 1. Type -Aware                        

> Knowledge Decomposition
> …
> A
> …
> 2. Relational Knowledge
> Graph Construction
> …
> Episodic Atom
> BEpisodic Atom
> C
> …
> Semantic Atom
> DProcedural Atom
> ESemantic Atom
> FEpisodic Atom
> 3. Self -Verification
> AB
> C
> DE
> F
> …
> 4. Type -Isolated
> Memory Writing
> Semantic Store
> Episodic Store
> Procedural Store
> ABF
> CE
> ADD
> SKIP
> D
> Update D’
> Query 1. Query -Adaptive
> Type Routing
> Semantic
> Store
> Episodic
> Store
> Procedural
> Store
> 80%
> 20%
> CE…B…Primary Retrieved Context
> 2. Relational Knowledge Composition
> AB
> CD
> E
> F
> 1hop
> 2hop
> 3hop
> ACBAFComposed
> Retrieved Context
> Write -Time Memory Reorganization Retrieval -Time Dynamic Memory Routing

Figure 3: Overview of M EM GUARD . At write time, M EM GUARD reorganizes a conversation into atomic knowledge units, constructs directed relations among them, verifies missing information, and writes each atom to a type-isolated memory store. At retrieval time, the model routes queries adaptively to relevant memory types and selectively composes retrieved atoms via a relational knowledge graph, reducing cross-type interference. By preserving functional boundaries, M EM GUARD prevents heterogeneous memory contamination. 

or absorbing one another. Cross-type relations are instead maintained only through G, enabling con-trolled relational expansion during retrieval without compromising storage-level functional boundaries. We set K=20. Details are in Appendix C.1. 

4.2 Retrieval-Time Dynamic Memory Routing 

At retrieval time, M EM GUARD retrieves memories through two stages: query-adaptive type routing and relational composition. The model allocates the primary retrieval budget across type-isolated stores, restricting retrieval to memory types likely to be useful for the query. The retrieved memories are then expanded over the relational knowledge graph constructed at write time, allowing the sys-tem to recover relevant cross-memory dependen-cies without collapsing functional boundaries. 

Query-Adaptive Type Routing Given a query 

q, M EM GUARD uses a prompt-based soft router to estimate the relevance of each memory type and output a confidence distribution over memory types: 

w = ρsoft (q), wτ ≥ 0, P  

> τ∈T

wτ = 1 . Each wτ

denotes the estimated utility of type τ for answer-ing q. Given a retrieval budget K, we allocates a type-specific budget kτ proportional to w: kτ =

⌊wτ K⌋, P  

> τ∈T

kτ = K. For each type τ , retrieval is performed only over its corresponding store Mτ :

Pτ = Top kτ (Mτ , sim( q, m )) ,

where sim is the cosine similarity between L2-normalized embeddings ϕ(q) and ϕ(m). We use 

text-embedding-3-small as ϕ(·). The primary retrieval set is: P = S  

> τ∈T

Pτ , |P | = K. 

Unlike uniform retrieval over all stores, this routing mechanism makes retrieval capacity query-adaptive while preserving the type-isolation introduced at write time. Details are included in Appendix C.2. 

Relational Knowledge Composition Type rout-ing improves retrieval precision, but primary re-trieval may still miss memories that are weakly similar to the query yet essential through relation-ships. To recover such memories, M EM GUARD 

expands each primary result over the relational graph G = ( V, E). For each pi ∈ P , let vi be its corresponding graph node. Starting from vi,breadth-first search (BFS) is performed up to hmax 

hops and collects reachable nodes: 

Ni =

(

(v′, r, d ) v′ ∈ BFS( vi, h max ),r ∈ R , d ≤ hmax 

)

.

where d is the hop distance and r is the relation label along the traversal path. Each reachable node is composed into a relation-aware context entry: 

ci,v ′ = pi ⊕ ([ → r], v ′), (v′, r, d ) ∈ N i,

where ⊕ denotes concatenation with an explicit relation label. The composed entry is scored by query relevance with hop decay: 

score( ci,d,v ′ ) = sim( q, c i,d,v ′ )·λd−1, λ ∈ (0 , 1) ,

where λ is a hop-decay factor. We set λ = 0 .85 .The final retrieval context is obtained by reranking all graph-expanded entries and selecting the top-K:

C = Top K

 {ci,d,v ′ | pi ∈ P, (v′, r, d ) ∈ N i}, score  .

5The answer-generation LLM is conditioned on the query q and the composed context C. Overall, query-adaptive routing prevents irrelevant mem-ory types from dominating retrieval, while graph-guided composition restores cross-memory depen-dencies through explicit typed relations. This provides controlled cross-type reasoning without weakening the functional boundaries enforced dur-ing write-time memory reorganization. 

5 Experiment 

5.1 Experimental Setup Baselines To evaluate our method, we com-pare against memory-augmented LLM baselines spanning diverse memory management paradigms: (1) flat semantic memory methods, including Mem0 (Chhikara et al., 2025) and Memobase (Ye et al., 2025), (2) structured/graph memory meth-ods, including Mem0-Graph (Chhikara et al., 2025), Zep (Rasmussen et al., 2025), and Su-permemory (Shah et al., 2025), (3) cognitive-inspired/hierarchical memory approaches, in-cluding MIRIX (Wang and Chen, 2025) and MemOS (Li et al., 2025), and (4) agentic mem-ory methods, such as A-Mem (Xu et al., 2025). Together, these baselines cover diverse memory structures, representations, and management. 

Datasets We use HaluMem (Chen et al., 2025), which diagnoses hallucinations in memory-augmented LLMs by testing whether models avoid ungrounded memory writes, recognize insufficient evidence, and resist propagating erroneous informa-tion during memory writing and generation. This makes it well-suited for measuring contamination across the memory pipeline. We further evaluate long-term memory in realistic conversational set-tings, i.e., LongMemEval (Wu et al., 2024), Lo-CoMo (Maharana et al., 2024), and PerLTQA (Du et al., 2024), all requiring personalized memory retention and retrieval. Together, these benchmarks measure hallucination robustness and long-horizon memory reasoning across diverse settings. 

Implementation Details For HaluMem, we follow the original protocol and evaluate on HaluMem-Medium due to computational cost. MEM GUARD uses GPT-4.1-mini as the base LLM, GPT-4.1 as the LLM-as-a-judge. Baseline results are taken from HaluMem, which uses the stronger GPT-4o as both base LLM and judge; thus, the comparison is conservative for M EM GUARD 

while reducing cost. We exclude A-Mem and MIRIX because they are not reported in HaluMem and require method-specific APIs. For utility evaluation on LoCoMo, PerltQA, and LongMemEval, we follow MemOS (Li et al., 2025), and use GPT-4o-mini as both base LLM and judge. We also report results under the HaluMem-consistent setting, using GPT-4.1-mini as the base LLM and GPT-4.1 as the judge. Baseline num-bers are taken from MemOS (PerltQA results are unavailable) , with A-Mem (Xu et al., 2025) repro-duced under our utility setting. 

Evaluation Metrics Following HaluMem (Chen et al., 2025), we evaluate memory systems across three tasks in the memory lifecycle: memory ex-traction, memory updating, and memory question answering. For memory extraction , we report recall, weighted recall, target memory precision, memory accuracy (anti-hallucination), and F1, mea-suring coverage, factuality, and overall extraction quality. For memory updating , we classify each required update as correct, hallucinated, or omitted. For memory question answering , we evaluate the end-to-end reliability after extraction, updat-ing, retrieval, and generation. Each response is judged against the reference answer and key mem-ory points, and categorized as correct, hallucinated, or omitted. We report the correctness, hallucina-tion, and omission rates using LLM-as-a-Judge for memory updating and question answering. For utility evaluation, we report answer accuracy using an LLM-as-a-judge, following prior work (Li et al., 2025). Accuracy on adversarial queries in Lo-CoMo is not available for existing works. Details are provided in the Appendix D. 

5.2 Main Results Hallucination Evaluation Table 1 shows that MEM GUARD reduces hallucination by improving the upstream memory construction and update. In extraction, M EM GUARD achieves the highest anti-hallucination accuracy ( Acc. =89.53) and F1 score (94.15), indicating that type-aware writing pro-duces cleaner and more complete memory units. In update, it obtains the highest correctness rate (70.79) and the lowest omission rate (28.86), in-dicating more reliable memory state management. These gains directly support our hypothesis: pre-serving functional boundaries reduces the risk of heterogeneous knowledge overwriting, obscuring, or conflicting with one another. Since HaluMem does not directly evaluate re-trieval hallucination, we further assess retrieval 6Table 1: Hallucination evaluation on HaluMem. Hallucination is evaluated at three stages: memory extraction, update, and answer generation. R/P denote recall/precision; C/H/O denote Correct/Hallucination/Omission rates; and Acc. denotes anti-hallucination accuracy. Higher is better for R, P, Acc., F1, and C; lower is better for H and O.  

> †

indicates results taken from the original paper.                                                                                                             

> Method Extraction Update Generation R↑Weighted R ↑Target P ↑Acc. (%) ↑F1 ↑C↑H ( ↓)O ( ↓)C↑H ( ↓)O ( ↓)Mem0 †42.91 65.03 86.26 60.86 57.31 25.50 0.45 74.02 53.02 19.17 27.81 Mem0-Graph †43.28 65.52 87.20 61.86 57.85 24.50 0.26 75.24 54.66 19.28 26.06 Zep †–––––47.28 0.42 52.31 55.47 21.92 22.62 MemOS †74.07 84.81 86.25 59.55 79.70 62.11 0.42 37.48 67.23 15.17 17.59
> Memobase †14.55 25.88 92.24 32.29 25.13 5.20 0.55 94.25 35.33 29.97 34.71 Supermemory †41.53 64.76 90.32 60.83 56.90 16.37 1.15 82.47 54.07 22.24 23.69 MEM GUARD 90.47 93.95 98.13 89.53 94.15 70.79 0.35 28.86 59.50 16.32 24.17 MEM GUARD (2 hop) 90.38 93.83 98.16 89.49 94.11 71.49 0.51 27.99 58.26 16.61 25.12

Table 2: Utility evaluation on general long-horizon conversation benchmarks. # Avg. Token refers to the average number of tokens in retrieved memories. Accuracy (%) is measured through LLM-as-a-Judge. †, ∗ indicates results taken from the original paper, while “–” indicates results not reported in the original paper.                                                                                                                                 

> Method LoCoMo # Avg. Token Single Hop Multi Hop Open Domain Temporal Adversarial Avg. PerltQA LongMemEval
> Base LLM: GPT-4o-mini, Judge LLM: GPT-4o-mini
> Mem0 †1172 73.33 58.75 45.83 52.34 –64.57 –66.40 Mem0-Graph ∗3616 65.71 47.19 75.71 58.13 –68.44 ––Zep †2701 66.23 52.12 33.33 54.82 –59.22 –63.80 MemOS 1589 81.09 67.49 55.90 75.18 –75.80 –77.80 Memobase †2102 73.12 64.65 53.12 81.20 –72.01 –72.40 Supermemory †500 67.30 51.12 42.67 31.77 –55.34 –58.40 MIRIX †-68.22 54.26 46.88 68.54 –64.33 –43.49 A-Mem 7244 60.64 38.54 62.78 23.68 68.83 56.34 77.04 47.00 MEM GUARD 1297 73.40 48.96 75.98 64.80 89.46 75.53 75.31 60.00 MEM GUARD (2 hop) 1250 73.76 51.04 76.58 62.93 90.13 75.78 75.64 60.00
> Base LLM: GPT-4.1-mini, Judge LLM: GPT-4.1
> A-Mem 7244 58.87 45.83 64.80 44.24 64.35 59.62 80.62 62.25 MEM GUARD 1605 70.92 59.38 83.12 78.01 75.11 77.29 79.44 73.50 MEM GUARD (2 hop) 1540 75.89 58.33 84.54 77.57 76.46 79.10 80.07 72.25

quality by comparing the retrieved context with gold memory points for each query q (details in Appendix D.4). MEM GUARD achieves 89.87% and 90.24% retrieval accuracy with 1-hop and 2-hop retrieval, respectively, comparable to its extrac-tion recall ( R = 90 .47 ). This suggests that type-aware writing and retrieval improve both memory construction and evidence accessibility. The im-provement from 1-hop to 2-hop retrieval further suggests that graph-guided composition can re-cover relationally relevant memories missed by direct semantic similarity. While M EM GUARD 

does not lead on every generation metric, this is consistent with our scope: the method targets con-tamination before generation, rather than enforc-ing generation-time grounding. Moreover, M EM -GUARD uses GPT-4.1-mini , whereas baselines use the stronger GPT-4o ; despite this conserva-tive setting, it maintains competitive generation hallucination and omission rates, showing that re-ducing write- and retrieval-time contamination can improve downstream memory faithfulness. 

Utility Evaluation Table 2 shows the results on long-horizon memory benchmarks. On LoCoMo, MEM GUARD achieves 75.53% average accuracy under the GPT-4o-mini setting, within 0.27% of MemOS while using fewer retrieved tokens. Un-der the setting of GPT-4.1-mini /GPT-4.1 for base LLM/judge, it reaches to 77.29%, surpassing A-Mem while using about 4.5 × fewer retrieved to-kens. The gain is most pronounced on adversarial queries, which test whether the system can abstain when evidence is insufficient. M EM GUARD outper-forms A-mem by 20.63% under the GPT-4o-mini 

and by 10.76% under the GPT-4.1-mini setting. These results suggest that preserving functional memory boundaries improves answerability cali-bration. Type-aware writing reduces unsupported or functionally unsuitable memories from becom-ing reusable evidence, while query-adaptive rout-ing limits retrieval to memory types relevant to the query, enabling M EM GUARD to answer when suf-ficient evidence exists and abstain more reliably when it does not. 7(a) Memory Type Separation. (b) Query Routing Results. 

Figure 4: Analysis of M EM GUARD at writing and retrieval. 

Figure 5: Results with different retrieval budgets and re-lational hop depth in relational knowledge composition. 

6 Analysis 

Type-Aware Memory Reorganization Keeps Functional Boundaries. To examine whether MEM GUARD mitigates write-time heterogeneous memory contamination, we visualize LoCoMo memories using Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) with text-embedding-3-small as an em-bedding. Figure 4a shows that semantic, episodic, and procedural memories form separable clusters, indicating that M EM GUARD stores memories in type-consistent regions rather than mixing function-ally different knowledge in a shared representation space. The result supports our design: type-aware reorganization preserves functional boundaries. 

Relational Composition Reduces Hallucination Without Sacrificing Utility. We analyze rela-tional knowledge composition on LoCoMo by vary-ing retrieval hop depth and top-K budget. As shown in Figure 5, increasing K improves aver-age accuracy but lowers adversarial accuracy, in-dicating that larger contexts recover more answer-supporting evidence while also introducing weakly relevant memories that discourage abstention on ungrounded queries. In contrast, with K fixed at 20, deeper relational expansion maintains utility comparable to the best 2-hop setting while achiev-ing stronger adversarial accuracy. This shows that relational composition improves evidence coverage 

Table 3: Ablations of different components.                 

> Relational Composition Query-Adaptive Routing LoCoMo PerltQA LongMemEval
> ✓✓77.29 79.44 73.50
> ✗✓75.53 74.18 70.50
> ✗✗68.83 69.71 60.75

more selectively than simply increasing retrieval volume, supporting our design of controlled struc-tural expansion for reliable memory retrieval. 

Functional Boundaries Require Both Struc-ture and Routing. Table 3 shows that relational knowledge composition and query-adaptive rout-ing both contribute to M EM GUARD ’s effectiveness. Removing the relational knowledge graph while re-taining query routing consistency degrades perfor-mance across all benchmarks, indicating that adap-tive budget allocation alone is insufficient when re-trieval relies mainly on semantic similarity. Remov-ing both components causes the largest drop, show-ing that unstructured retrieval without type-aware routing is less reliable for long-horizon memory reasoning. These results suggest that the two com-ponents are complementary: the relational graph enables controlled evidence expansion over type-aware memory atoms, while query routing allocates retrieval capacity across memory stores based on routing confidence. Together, they preserve func-tional boundaries, reduce cross-memory interfer-ence, and improve downstream reasoning. 

7 Conclusions and Future Work 

We introduced M EM GUARD , a framework that im-proves long-term memory reliability by treating hal-lucination as a memory-governance failure across writing and retrieval. Our results show that persis-tent hallucinations often stem from heterogeneous memory contamination, where functionally dis-tinct memories are stored or accessed without suf-ficient boundary preservation. By enforcing type-aware memory organization and query-adaptive retrieval, it reduces cross-memory interference while enabling structured evidence composition across memory types. Experiments across long-term memory benchmarks show that our method improves memory reliability, strengthens absten-tion on ungrounded queries, and maintains strong utility with fewer retrieved tokens, suggesting that scalable memory-augmented LLMs should treat memory as a structured and selectively accessed substrate for grounded reasoning. Future work can extend M EM GUARD with generation-time ground-ing to further reduce composition failures. 8Limitation 

MEM GUARD improves memory reliability by pre-serving functional boundaries during writing and retrieval, but it does not directly control generation-time behavior. As a result, although the retrieved memory context is correct and reliable, composi-tion errors may still occur when the base LLM misinterprets or insufficiently grounds its response in the given context. In addition, M EM GUARD 

is implemented as an agentic memory framework built on LLM-based memory construction and re-trieval, which may incur additional inference cost compared with fully trained end-to-end memory policies. Finally, our evaluation focuses on long-horizon conversational memory and hallucination benchmarks; future work should validate boundary-preserving memory management in broader set-tings, such as embodied agents and long-horizon decision-making tasks. 9References 

Ding Chen, Simin Niu, Kehang Li, Peng Liu, Xiang-ping Zheng, Bo Tang, Xinchi Li, Feiyu Xiong, and Zhiyu Li. 2025. Halumem: Evaluating hallucina-tions in memory systems of agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.03506 .Prateek Chhikara, Dev Khant, Saket Aryan, Taranjeet Singh, and Deshraj Yadav. 2025. Mem0: Building production-ready ai agents with scalable long-term memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.19413 .Yiming Du, Hongru Wang, Zhengyi Zhao, Bin Liang, Baojun Wang, Wanjun Zhong, Zezhong Wang, and Kam-Fai Wong. 2024. Perltqa: A personal long-term memory dataset for memory classification, retrieval, and fusion in question answering. In Proceedings of the 10th SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processing (SIGHAN-10) , pages 152–164. Francis Eustache and Béatrice Desgranges. 2008. Mne-sis: towards the integration of current multisys-tem models of memory. Neuropsychology review ,18(1):53–69. Bernal J Gutiérrez, Yiheng Shu, Yu Gu, Michihiro Ya-sunaga, and Yu Su. 2024. Hipporag: Neurobiologi-cally inspired long-term memory for large language models. Advances in neural information processing systems , 37:59532–59569. Hyeonjeong Ha, Qiusi Zhan, Jeonghwan Kim, Dim-itrios Bralios, Saikrishna Sanniboina, Nanyun Peng, Kai-Wei Chang, Daniel Kang, and Heng Ji. 2025. Mm-poisonrag: Disrupting multimodal rag with lo-cal and global poisoning attacks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.17832 .Kostas Hatalis, Despina Christou, Joshua Myers, Steven Jones, Keith Lambert, Adam Amos-Binks, Zohreh Dannenhauer, and Dustin Dannenhauer. 2023. Mem-ory matters: The need to improve long-term memory in llm-agents. In Proceedings of the AAAI Sympo-sium Series , volume 2, pages 277–280. Giwon Hong, Jeonghwan Kim, Junmo Kang, Sung-Hyon Myaeng, and Joyce Jiyoung Whang. 2024. Why so gullible? enhancing the robustness of retrieval-augmented models against counterfactual noise. In Findings of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics: NAACL 2024 , pages 2474–2495. Chuanrui Hu, Xingze Gao, Zuyi Zhou, Dannong Xu, Yi Bai, Xintong Li, Hui Zhang, Tong Li, Chong Zhang, Lidong Bing, and 1 others. 2026. Ever-memos: A self-organizing memory operating system for structured long-horizon reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.02163 .Lei Huang, Weijiang Yu, Weitao Ma, Weihong Zhong, Zhangyin Feng, Haotian Wang, Qianglong Chen, Weihua Peng, Xiaocheng Feng, Bing Qin, and 1 oth-ers. 2025. A survey on hallucination in large lan-guage models: Principles, taxonomy, challenges, and open questions. ACM Transactions on Information Systems , 43(2):1–55. Dongming Jiang, Yi Li, Guanpeng Li, and Bingzhe Li. 2026. Magma: A multi-graph based agentic memory architecture for ai agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.03236 .Bowen Jin, Jinsung Yoon, Jiawei Han, and Sercan Arik. 2025. Long-context llms meet rag: Overcoming challenges for long inputs in rag. In International Conference on Learning Representations , volume 2025, pages 37784–37822. Jiazheng Kang, Mingming Ji, Zhe Zhao, and Ting Bai. 2025. Memory os of ai agent. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 25972–25981. Zhiyu Li, Shichao Song, Hanyu Wang, Simin Niu, Ding Chen, Jiawei Yang, Chenyang Xi, Huayi Lai, Jihao Zhao, Yezhaohui Wang, and 1 others. 2025. Memos: An operating system for memory-augmented genera-tion (mag) in large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.22101 .Jiayu Liu, Cheng Qian, Zhaochen Su, Qing Zong, Shijue Huang, Bingxiang He, and Yi R Fung. 2025. Cost-bench: Evaluating multi-turn cost-optimal planning and adaptation in dynamic environments for llm tool-use agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.02734 .Jiayu Liu, Rui Wang, Qing Zong, Qingcheng Zeng, Tianshi Zheng, Haochen Shi, Dadi Guo, Baixuan Xu, Chunyang Li, and Yangqiu Song. 2026. Naacl: Noise-aware verbal confidence calibration for llms in rag systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.11004 .Chang Ma, Junlei Zhang, Zhihao Zhu, Cheng Yang, Yujiu Yang, Yaohui Jin, Zhenzhong Lan, Lingpeng Kong, and Junxian He. 2024. Agentboard: An an-alytical evaluation board of multi-turn llm agents. 

Advances in neural information processing systems ,37:74325–74362. Adyasha Maharana, Dong-Ho Lee, Sergey Tulyakov, Mohit Bansal, Francesco Barbieri, and Yuwei Fang. 2024. Evaluating very long-term conversational memory of llm agents. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 13851– 13870. Charles Packer, Vivian Fang, Shishir_G Patil, Kevin Lin, Sarah Wooders, and Joseph_E Gonzalez. 2023. Memgpt: towards llms as operating systems. Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Mered-ith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S Bern-stein. 2023. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior. In Proceedings of the 36th an-nual acm symposium on user interface software and technology , pages 1–22. Seong-Il Park and Jay-Yoon Lee. 2024. Toward robust ralms: Revealing the impact of imperfect retrieval on retrieval-augmented language models. Transac-tions of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics , 12:1686–1702. 

10 Preston Rasmussen, Pavlo Paliychuk, Travis Beauvais, Jack Ryan, and Daniel Chalef. 2025. Zep: a tempo-ral knowledge graph architecture for agent memory. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.13956 .Dhravya Shah, Mahesh Sanikommu, Yash, and 1 others. 2025. supermemory. https://supermemory.ai/ .Accessed: 2025-11-05. Mohit Shridhar, Xingdi Yuan, Marc-Alexandre Côté, Yonatan Bisk, Adam Trischler, and Matthew Hausknecht. 2020. Alfworld: Aligning text and em-bodied environments for interactive learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.03768 .Theodore Sumers, Shunyu Yao, Karthik R Narasimhan, and Thomas L Griffiths. 2023. Cognitive architec-tures for language agents. Transactions on Machine Learning Research .Endel Tulving and 1 others. 1972. Episodic and seman-tic memory. Organization of memory , 1(381-403):1. Weizhi Wang, Li Dong, Hao Cheng, Xiaodong Liu, Xifeng Yan, Jianfeng Gao, and Furu Wei. 2023. Aug-menting language models with long-term memory. 

Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems ,36:74530–74543. Yu Wang and Xi Chen. 2025. Mirix: Multi-agent mem-ory system for llm-based agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.07957 .Di Wu, Hongwei Wang, Wenhao Yu, Yuwei Zhang, Kai-Wei Chang, and Dong Yu. 2024. Longmemeval: Benchmarking chat assistants on long-term interac-tive memory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.10813 .Yaxiong Wu, Yongyue Zhang, Sheng Liang, and Yong Liu. 2025. Sgmem: Sentence graph memory for long-term conversational agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.21212 .Buqiang Xu, Yijun Chen, Jizhan Fang, Ruobin Zhong, Yunzhi Yao, Yuqi Zhu, Lun Du, and Shumin Deng. 2026. Structmem: Structured memory for long-horizon behavior in llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2604.21748 .Wujiang Xu, Zujie Liang, Kai Mei, Hang Gao, Jun-tao Tan, and Yongfeng Zhang. 2025. A-mem: Agentic memory for llm agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.12110 .Sikuan Yan, Xiufeng Yang, Zuchao Huang, Ercong Nie, Zifeng Ding, Zonggen Li, Xiaowen Ma, Jinhe Bi, Kristian Kersting, Jeff Z Pan, and 1 others. 2025. Memory-r1: Enhancing large language model agents to manage and utilize memories via reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.19828 .Gustavo Ye, Jinjia Gener, and 1 others. 2025. Memobase. https://github.com/memodb-io/ memobase . Accessed: 2025-11-05. Yi Yu, Liuyi Yao, Yuexiang Xie, Qingquan Tan, Ji-aqi Feng, Yaliang Li, and Libing Wu. 2026. Agen-tic memory: Learning unified long-term and short-term memory management for large language model agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.01885 .Wanjun Zhong, Lianghong Guo, Qiqi Gao, He Ye, and Yanlin Wang. 2024. Memorybank: Enhancing large language models with long-term memory. In Pro-ceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelli-gence , volume 38, pages 19724–19731. 

11 A Related Work 

A.1 Memory-Augmented LLMs 

Memory-augmented LLMs have evolved to support sustained, multi-turn interactions and long-horizon reasoning (Wang et al., 2023; Hatalis et al., 2023; Wu et al., 2024; Du et al., 2024; Ma et al., 2024; Park et al., 2023; Shridhar et al., 2020; Maharana et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2025), with existing methods broadly falling into four paradigms. Flat seman-tic memory stores conversational chunks or mem-ories in vector databases and retrieves them via semantic similarity via retrieval-augmented genera-tion (RAG) (Zhong et al., 2024; Chhikara et al., 2025; Ye et al., 2025). While being computa-tionally efficient, they treat conversational history as an unordered set of propositions and disparate pieces of knowledge are inadvertently merged, making it prone to interference from merged het-erogeneous facts at write-time. Structured and graph-based memory explicitly models the relation-ships between events, entities, and concepts (Jiang et al., 2026; Rasmussen et al., 2025; Gutiérrez et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2026), yet still retrieves mixed episodic and semantic nodes indiscrimi-nately via similarity or topological search, leav-ing them susceptible to retrieval-time contamina-tion. Cognitive-inspired and hierarchical memory 

replicates the layered storage divisions of the hu-man brain (Packer et al., 2023; Kang et al., 2025; Hu et al., 2026; Li et al., 2025), such as working, episodic, semantic, and procedural memories, but often relies on static type assignment and mixed re-trieval, leaving weak boundaries between memory types that lead to cross-type interference. Agentic and dynamic memory transforms static database by employing active, context-adaptive decision pro-cesses optimized by the model (Xu et al., 2025; Yan et al., 2025; Yu et al., 2026); however, without explicit boundary preservation, they suffer from exacerbating write-time contamination and raising the risk of uncontrolled associated loops. In con-trast, M EM GUARD targets the shared limitation across these paradigms: heterogeneous memory contamination. By preserving semantic boundaries throughout the memory lifecycle, M EM GUARD 

aims to reduce cross-type interference and down-stream hallucination. Comparison between existing works and M EM GUARD is provided in Table 4. 

B Heterogeneous Memory Contamination 

B.1 Definition of Heterogeneous Memory Contamination Formulation Memory-augmented LLMs contin-uously write, retrieve, and compose information from prior interactions to support long-context rea-soning and personalization. However, conversa-tional memory naturally contains heterogeneous forms of knowledge, including episodic events, se-mantic facts, and procedural behaviors, that dif-fer in structure, temporal scope, and intended use. While existing memory systems improve scalability and organization through hierarchical architectures, semantic categories, or adaptive memory manage-ment, they still largely rely on shared retrieval spaces where heterogeneous memory types are stored and retrieved together. As a result, semanti-cally distinct knowledge can interfere throughout the memory lifecycle, leading to what we term 

heterogeneous memory contamination : a failure mode in which weak semantic knowledge bound-aries produce noisy memory interactions and de-graded reasoning over long interaction horizons. To better characterize this phenomenon, we or-ganize contamination into three stages of the mem-ory lifecycle: write-time contamination , retrieval-time contamination , and composition-time contam-ination (Figure 1). Write-time contamination oc-curs when heterogeneous knowledge is improp-erly constructed or updated during memory writing. This includes incomplete abstraction, incorrect up-dates, unsupported generalization, or fabrication beyond conversational evidence, causing contam-inated knowledge to persist in memory over time. Retrieval-time contamination occurs when semanti-cally mismatched memories are retrieved together, introducing noisy or cross-type information that interferes with identifying the relevant evidence for a query. Composition-time contamination occurs when retrieved memories are incorrectly integrated during reasoning, allowing irrelevant episodic de-tails, procedural artifacts, or semantically unre-lated memories to distort final answer generation. Although these failures occur at different stages, they frequently propagate throughout the memory pipeline, where early contamination during mem-ory construction degrades downstream retrieval and reasoning. Fine-grained categories of contamina-tion type within each stage are described in Table 5. 12 Table 4: Comparison with existing works. Unlike prior methods, M EM GUARD explicitly preserves functional knowledge boundaries via type-aware memory reorganization at writing and dynamic memory routing at retrieval. 

Method Memory Structure Representation Memory Sharing Write-time Strategy Retrieval Strategy Routing Mechanism 

Flat Retrieval–based Memory 

MemoryBank (Zhong et al., 2024) Flat / Profile-based Text summaries + user portrait Shared Summarization + memory updating Similarity-based recall ✗

Mem0 (Chhikara et al., 2025) Flat / Hybrid Text Shared Extract + consolidate salient facts Similarity search ✗

MemoBase (Ye et al., 2025) Profile-based Structured text profile Shared Profile extraction + update Profile retrieval / similarity search ✗

Structured / Graph-based Memory 

Mem0-Graph (Chhikara et al., 2025) Graph-enhanced Entity-relation graph + text Shared Extract + link entities Graph traversal + similarity search ✗

MAGMA (Jiang et al., 2026) Multi-graph Semantic/temporal/causal/entity graphs Shared Multi-graph construction Policy-guided graph traversal Partial Zep (Rasmussen et al., 2025) Temporal KG Text + Entities/Relations Shared Incremental extraction & entity resolution Graph traversal + similarity ✗

Agentic / Dynamic Memory 

A-MEM (Xu et al., 2025) Network/Graph-like Structured notes + links Shared Note construction + link generation + evolution Link-aware retrieval + vector search ✗

Memory-R1 Flat Text entries Shared RL-guided operations RAG + Memory Distillation ✗

Cognitive-Inspired / Hierarchical Memory 

MemOS (Li et al., 2025) System-level typed memory Parametric / activation / plaintext memory Partially shared Memory governance via MemCube Managed memory access Partial EverMemOS (Hu et al., 2026) Hierarchical / Self-organizing Text / structured memory units Shared Engram-inspired consolidation Hierarchical / lifecycle-aware retrieval ✗

MemGPT (Packer et al., 2023) Hierarchical Text Shared LLM-controlled memory edits Context paging + archival search Partial MIRIX (Wang and Chen, 2025) Typed / Modular Text memories by type Partially shared Static type assignment / consolidation Mixed type-wise retrieval ✗

MemGuard (Ours) Typed + Dynamic Atomic units + relational knowledge graph Isolated Dynamic routing Query-aware memory routing ✓

Stage Type Category Definition 

Write F

memory_missing Relevant information appears in the conversation but is never written to memory. 

abstraction_error Information is stored with distorted, incomplete, or overly com-pressed details, losing important specificity. 

update_error A previously stored memory is not updated when new informa-tion supersedes or corrects it, resulting in stale knowledge. U hallucinated_memory_write A memory entry is fabricated without grounding in the conversa-tion. 

spurious_inference_stored An unjustified inference is stored as a fact based on weak or indirect evidence. Retrieval F

retrieval_miss A correct memory exists in storage but is not retrieved. 

retrieval_ranking_error The correct memory is retrieved but ranked below less relevant or incorrect memories. 

retrieval_granularity_mismatch Retrieved memories are too coarse or too fine-grained, prevent-ing correct reasoning. 

conflicting_context Retrieved memories contain contradictory information, and the correct one is not properly selected. 

distracting_context Irrelevant or weakly related memories are retrieved and interfere with reasoning. U false_positive_retrieval Retrieved memories are topically similar but do not contain the required information. 

context_overextension Partial or weak evidence from retrieved memory leads the model to generate unsupported conclusions. Composition F

temporal_reasoning_failure The model fails to correctly handle temporal order, recency, or updates across time. 

multi_hop_reasoning_failure The model fails to combine multiple retrieved facts to reach a correct conclusion. 

semantic_misinterpretation The model misinterprets the meaning or implication of retrieved content. 

generalization_error The model incorrectly applies or fails to apply knowledge beyond its valid scope. U

parametric_memory_intrusion The model relies on pretrained knowledge instead of retrieved memory, overriding relevant context. 

unanswerable_recognition_failure The model fails to recognize insufficient information and gener-ates an answer instead of abstaining. 

hallucinated_reasoning_chain The model fabricates a multi-step reasoning process without sufficient grounding in retrieved memory. 

Table 5: Fine-grained taxonomy of memory contam-ination errors across write-time, retrieval-time, and composition-time, covering two types of hallucinations: factuality errors (F) and unverifiability errors (U). 

Analysis Based on this formulation, we conduct a systematic error analysis on existing memory frameworks (Chhikara et al., 2025) using the Lo-CoMo (Maharana et al., 2024) benchmark. We divide hallucinations into two categories: factual-ity errors , where the correct answer is recoverable from the conversational history but the system fails to generate it correctly, and unverifiability errors ,where the conversational history does not contain sufficient evidence for answering and the model should abstain but instead generates unsupported content. Using GPT-5.2 as an LLM-as-a-Judge, we annotate failures across the memory lifecycle and categorize them according to the contamination taxonomy described above, including write-time, retrieval-time, and composition-time failures. Our annotation results reveal distinct stage-wise failure patterns (Figure 2). Unverifiability er-rors are predominantly associated with write-time contamination (97.7%), where unsupported, over-generalized, or improperly abstracted knowledge becomes persistently stored in memory and later reinforced across future interactions. In contrast, factuality errors are more strongly associated with 

retrieval-time contamination (63.8%), where the correct knowledge exists in memory but is not re-liably retrieved or appropriately prioritized during reasoning. To further understand the underlying causes of these failures, we analyze memory interac-tions across retrieved evidence and identify a common mechanism behind many errors: cross-type retrieval and collision . Because heteroge-neous memory types are often stored and retrieved within shared memory spaces, semantically dis-tinct knowledge can become entangled during re-trieval and reasoning. As a result, topically related but semantically incompatible memories, such as transient episodic observations, procedural instruc-tions, or loosely associated contextual details, are frequently retrieved together and compete during reasoning. We observe that many factuality er-rors arise not because the correct memory is ab-sent, but because it is overshadowed by irrelevant cross-type memories during retrieval. Similarly, unverifiability errors often emerge when weakly grounded or unsupported memories collide with relevant evidence and become reinforced during generation. Together, these findings suggest that persistent memory failures stem not only from re-trieval quality itself, but more fundamentally from weak semantic boundaries between heterogeneous memory types throughout the memory lifecycle. 

B.2 Annotation Pipeline 

To analyze heterogeneous memory contamination, we annotate each incorrect model response with an LLM-based stepwise pipeline. We first distinguish between two failure types: factuality errors , where the question has a valid ground-truth answer but the model answers incorrectly, and hallucinations ,where the question is unanswerable but the model produces a non-abstaining answer. We randomly 13 sample 300 incorrect cases from existing methods for annotation. All annotations are produced by LLM-as-a-judge calls with temperature set to 0, using GPT-5.2 as the LLM. 

Factuality Error Pipeline For factuality errors, we identify the earliest stage at which the correct answer is available. We first check whether the ground-truth answer can be derived from the re-trieved context. If so, the failure is attributed either to retrieval errors , where the retrieved context is insufficient or misleading despite containing rele-vant information, or to composition errors , where sufficient evidence is retrieved but the model fails to reason over it correctly. If the answer is not recoverable from the retrieved context, we check the full memory storage. When the answer exists in storage but is not retrieved, we label the failure as a retrieval miss . If the answer is absent from memory storage, we inspect the original conversa-tion and classify the failure as a write-time error, including memory missing , abstraction error , or 

update error .

Step 1: Is Ground-Truth Answerable from Retrieved Context? 

You are an expert evaluator of memory-augmented language models. ## Task Determine whether the **ground-truth answer** can be correctly derived from the **retrieved context** provided to the model. ## Retrieved Context {{retrieved_context}} ## Ground-Truth Answer {{ground_truth}} ## Question {{question}} ## Instructions - Answer YES if a careful reader of the retrieved context could produce the ground-truth answer. - Answer NO if key information needed to arrive at the ground-truth answer is absent or insufficient. - Do NOT consider whether the model *chose* to use the context correctly - only whether the context *contains* what is needed. Return JSON only: 

``` json {"answerable": true_or_false, "reasoning": "<1-2 sentences citing specific evidence>"} 

``` 

Step 1b: Disambiguation - retrieval error vs. compo-sition error 

You are an expert evaluator of memory-augmented language models. The ground-truth answer **can** be derived from the retrieved context, yet the model produced an incorrect 

answer. Determine whether the root cause is a **retrieval-quality problem** or a **composition/reasoning problem **. ## Retrieved Context {{retrieved_context}} ## Model Response {{model_response}} ## Ground-Truth Answer {{ground_truth}} ## Question {{question}} ---## Distinction **Retrieval-quality problem** - The composition of *what was retrieved* caused the error: - A correct memory is present but ranked lower than a misleading one. - Memories are at the wrong granularity (too coarse or too fine). - The retrieved set contains two directly contradictory statements. - An irrelevant memory in the retrieved set distracted the model. In all these cases, improving the *retriever* - not the *reasoner* - would fix the error. **Composition/reasoning problem** - The retrieval content was sufficient; the model 's *reasoning* failed: - The model failed to reason about time or sequence correctly. - The model had all pieces but failed to chain them. - The model misinterpreted the meaning of a retrieved phrase. - The model applied a specific fact beyond its intended scope. In these cases, improving the *reasoner* - not the * retriever* - would fix the error. Return JSON only: 

``` json {"is_retrieval_quality_error": true or false, "reasoning ": "<1-2 sentences explaining the deciding signal>"} 

``` 

Fine-Grained Retrieval Error Annotation 

You are an expert evaluator of memory-augmented language models. The ground-truth answer **can** be derived from the retrieved context, yet the model 's error stems from a **retrieval-quality problem** - the composition of retrieved memories caused the failure. Classify the specific retrieval-quality error type. ## Conversation Context {{conversation}} ## Retrieved Context {{retrieved_context}} ## Model Response {{model_response}} ## Ground-Truth Answer {{ground_truth}} ## Question {{question}} ---## ERROR TAXONOMY (retrieval-quality errors) ### retrieval_ranking_error 

14 The correct memory IS present in the retrieved context but is outranked by a less-relevant item that the model preferentially uses. - The correct answer is retrievable from the set; model '

s answer aligns with a weaker, lower-ranked item. - Example: Retrieved ["User prefers vegetarian meals (rank 2)", "User ate a burger at a company event (rank 1) "] -> model recommends burger. ### retrieval_granularity_mismatch Retrieved memories are at the wrong level of detail -too coarse (bundling unrelated facts) or too fine (splitting linked facts so the inference chain breaks). - Individual items are not wrong per se, but their granularity prevents the correct inference. - Example: Chunk A "User takes medication X" + Chunk B " X interacts with alcohol" - only A retrieved -> incomplete picture. ### conflicting_context The retrieved set contains two or more directly contradictory statements; the model picks the wrong one or fails to reconcile them. - Both a correct and an incorrect (or two incompatible) claims appear in the retrieved set. - Example: Retrieved ["Goal weight is 70 kg", "Target is 80 kg"] -> model uses wrong value. ### distracting_context The retrieved set contains irrelevant information that is not directly contradictory but misleads the model. - No direct contradiction; an off-topic or loosely-related fact pulls the answer in the wrong direction. - Example: "User prefers Python " + "User 's team uses Java at work" -> model answers "Java". ---## Tiebreaker Rules | Tie | Resolution | |-----|------------| | retrieval_ranking_error vs. distracting_context | If the correct answer IS in the set (just lower-ranked) -> ranking_error. If irrelevant noise wins without a correct-answer counterpart -> distracting_context. | | conflicting_context vs. retrieval_ranking_error | If there is a direct factual contradiction -> conflicting_context. If correct item is simply outweighed by a less-relevant one without direct contradiction -> ranking_error. | ---## Proposing a Novel Sub-type If none of the four categories adequately describe the failure: 1. Explain specifically why each existing type fails. 2. Use `snake_case `; describe the mechanism, not the symptom. 3. Set `"is_novel_type": true ` and fill `"novel_type_definition" ` with one sentence. 4. Set `"confidence" ` to `"low" ` or `"medium" ` - never 

`"high" ` for novel types. ---Return JSON only: 

``` json {"error_type": "<retrieval_ranking_error | retrieval_granularity_mismatch | conflicting_context | distracting_context | or new name>", "is_novel_type": false, "novel_type_definition": null, "confidence": "<high | medium | low>", "explanation": "<2-4 sentences: what went wrong and why this category fits>", "alternative_considered": "<second-most-likely category and why it was ruled out>", "evidence": { "retrieved_context": "<relevant retrieved snippet>", "model_output": "<key incorrect phrase>", "ground_truth": "<correct answer>" }}

``` 

15 Fine-Grained Composition Error Annotation 

You are an expert evaluator of memory-augmented language models. The ground-truth answer **can** be derived from the retrieved context AND the retrieval quality is adequate. The model 's error is a **composition or reasoning failure** - it had what it needed but failed to produce the correct answer through its reasoning process. Classify the specific reasoning error. ## Conversation Context {{conversation}} ## Retrieved Context {{retrieved_context}} ## Model Response {{model_response}} ## Ground-Truth Answer {{ground_truth}} ## Question {{question}} ---## ERROR TAXONOMY (composition / reasoning errors only) ### temporal_reasoning_failure Retrieved context contains time-stamped or sequenced information; model fails to correctly interpret recency, order, or duration. - All needed facts are retrieved; error arises from mishandling the time dimension. - Example: Retrieved ["Lived in NYC in 2021", "Moved to Austin in 2023"] -> model answers "NYC". ### multi_hop_reasoning_failure All required facts are present in retrieved context; model fails to chain them together to derive the correct answer. - No retrieval issue; answer requires combining 2+ facts the model has access to. - Example: "Alice is Bob 's manager" + "Bob works in London" -> "Which office does Alice 's report work in?" -> model: "Unknown". ### semantic_misinterpretation Retrieved context is complete and correctly retrieved; model misunderstands the meaning of a word, phrase, or implicit reference. - Error is lexical, pragmatic, or referential - not a retrieval issue. - Example: "User said they are 'done ' with keto" -> model interprets "done" as "finished successfully" rather than "quitting". ### generalization_error Model correctly retrieves a specific fact but incorrectly generalizes or over-applies it beyond its intended scope, or fails to apply a general rule to a clear instance. - Memory and retrieval are correct; error is about scope application. - Example: "User dislikes cilantro in savory dishes" -> model: "User has no food restrictions." ---## Tiebreaker Rules | Tie | Resolution | |-----|------------| | multi_hop_reasoning_failure vs. semantic_misinterpretation | Model has all pieces but fails to connect them -> multi_hop. Model misreads the meaning of a single retrieved phrase -> semantic_misinterpretation. | | generalization_error vs. temporal_reasoning_failure | Scope error is about time/recency -> temporal_reasoning_failure. Scope error is about category/generality, not time -> generalization_error. | 

---## Proposing a Novel Sub-type If none of the four categories adequately describe the failure: 1. Explain specifically why each existing type fails. 2. Use `snake_case `; describe the mechanism, not the symptom. 3. Set `"is_novel_type": true ` and fill `"novel_type_definition" ` with one sentence. 4. Set `"confidence" ` to `"low" ` or `"medium" `.---Return JSON only: 

``` json {"error_type": "<temporal_reasoning_failure | multi_hop_reasoning_failure | semantic_misinterpretation | generalization_error | or new name>", "is_novel_type": false, "novel_type_definition": null, "confidence": "<high | medium | low>", "explanation": "<2-4 sentences: what went wrong and why this category fits>", "alternative_considered": "<second-most-likely category and why it was ruled out>", "evidence": { "retrieved_context": "<relevant retrieved snippet>", "model_output": "<key incorrect phrase>", "ground_truth": "<correct answer>" }}

``` 

Step 2: Is Ground-Truth in Constructed Memory? 

You are an expert evaluator of memory-augmented language models. ## Task Determine whether the **ground-truth answer** can be correctly derived from the **full memory storage** (all stored memories, not just what was retrieved). ## Full Memory Storage {{memory_storage}} ## Ground-Truth Answer {{ground_truth}} ## Question {{question}} ## Instructions - Answer YES if any entry in memory storage contains the fact(s) needed to produce the ground-truth answer. - Answer NO if the needed fact is absent from memory storage entirely. - Do NOT consider whether retrieval surfaced it - only whether it exists anywhere in storage. Return JSON only: 

``` json {"answerable": true_or_false, "reasoning": "<1-2 sentences citing the specific memory entry or noting absence>"} 

``` 

Step 3: Is Ground-Truth in Original Conversation History? 

You are an expert evaluator of memory-augmented language models. ## Task Determine whether the **ground-truth answer** can be correctly derived from the **original conversation**. 

16 ## Original Conversation {{conversation}} ## Ground-Truth Answer {{ground_truth}} ## Question {{question}} ## Instructions - Answer YES if the conversation contains the fact(s) needed to produce the ground-truth answer. - Answer NO if the conversation does not contain sufficient information. Return JSON only: 

``` json {"answerable": true_or_false, "reasoning": "<1-2 sentences citing the relevant conversation turn or noting absence>"} 

``` 

Fine-Grained Write-Time Error Annotation 

You are an expert evaluator of memory-augmented language models. The ground-truth answer **cannot** be derived from either the retrieved context or the full memory storage, but **can** be derived from the original conversation. Classify which write-time memory failure caused the information to be lost or distorted. ## Conversation Context {{conversation}} ## Memory Storage {{memory_storage}} ## Model Response {{model_response}} ## Ground-Truth Answer {{ground_truth}} ## Question {{question}} ---## ERROR TAXONOMY (write-time / memory-origin errors) ### memory_missing Relevant information was present in the conversation but was **never written to memory at all**. - The correct answer can be derived from the conversation. - That information is entirely absent from memory storage. - This is an **omission** failure, not contamination of existing content. - Example: Conversation "I 'm vegetarian and have been for 10 years." Memory: (no dietary info stored) -> memory_missing. ### abstraction_error Information was stored in memory, but **incorrectly, incompletely, or with distorted meaning** -without a conflicting update event. - Memory exists for the topic but key details are wrong, missing, or negated incorrectly. - There is no temporal conflict - this is a one-time write error. - Example: Conversation "I 'm allergic to shellfish, not just sensitive - I carry an EpiPen." Memory: "User is mildly sensitive to shellfish." -> abstraction_error. ### update_error A new piece of information should have updated an old entry, but the memory system failed -

keeping only the outdated version, only the new version when the old was still valid, or creating a corrupt merged entry. - At least **two temporally distinct** conversation turns address the same fact. - Memory fails to reflect the correct final state. - Example: Turn 1 "I live in Berlin." Turn 5 "I just relocated to Amsterdam." Memory: "User lives in Berlin." -> update_error. ---## Disambiguation Table | memory_missing | abstraction_error | update_error | |----------------|-------------------|--------------| | Info absent from storage entirely | Info in storage but distorted | Info in storage but stale | | No memory entry exists for topic | Entry exists, content is wrong | Two competing temporal versions exist || Single write never happened | Single write happened incorrectly | Multi-turn update failed | **Tiebreaker:** Later conversation turn that should overwrite an earlier memory -> update_error. Single write was simply wrong with no competing version -> abstraction_error. No write happened at all -> memory_missing. ---## Proposing a Novel Sub-type If none of the three categories adequately describe the failure: 1. Explain specifically why each existing type fails. 2. Use `snake_case `; describe the mechanism, not the symptom. 3. Set `"is_novel_type": true ` and fill `"novel_type_definition" ` with one sentence. 4. Set `"confidence" ` to `"low" ` or `"medium" `.---Return JSON only: 

``` json {"error_type": "<memory_missing | abstraction_error | update_error | or new name>", "is_novel_type": false, "novel_type_definition": null, "confidence": "<high | medium | low>", "explanation": "<2-4 sentences: what went wrong and why this category fits>", "alternative_considered": "<second-most-likely category and why it was ruled out>", "evidence": { "conversation": "<relevant conversation snippet>", "memory_storage": "<relevant stored entry or 'N/A -not present '>", "model_output": "<key incorrect phrase>", "ground_truth": "<correct answer>" }}

``` 

Unverifiability Error Annotation Pipeline For hallucinations, we trace the origin of the fabricated answer. We first check whether the hallucinated content can be linked to memory storage. If so, we label it as a memory-time contamination , dis-tinguishing between hallucinated memory writes with no conversational grounding and spurious in-ferences that over-extend loosely related evidence. If the hallucination is not traceable to storage, we check the retrieved context. Cases grounded in re-trieved but non-answering or only partially relevant context are labeled as retrieval-time contamina-

17 tion , including false positive retrieval and context overextension. If neither memory storage nor re-trieved context explains the hallucination, we at-tribute the error to generation-time contamination ,such as parametric memory intrusion, unanswer-able recognition failure, or hallucinated reasoning chains. 

Step 1: Is Hallucination traceable to Constructed Memory? 

You are an expert evaluator of memory-augmented language models. ## Task Determine whether the model 's **hallucinated answer** can be traced back to any entry in **memory storage** - even if that entry is fabricated, inferred, or only loosely related. This question has **no correct answer** derivable from the original conversation. The model generated an answer anyway. ## Memory Storage {{memory_storage}} ## Model 's Hallucinated Answer {{model_response}} ## Question {{question}} ## Instructions - Answer YES if any memory entry - even a fabricated, over-inferred, or distorted one -could plausibly be the source the model drew on to produce this answer. - Answer NO if the model 's answer has no traceable connection to any entry in memory storage. Return JSON only: 

``` json {"traceable_to_memory": true_or_false, "reasoning": "<1-2 sentences identifying the relevant memory entry or confirming absence>"} 

``` 

Fine-Grained Write-Time Annotation 

You are an expert evaluator of memory-augmented language models. ## Task Determine whether the model 's **hallucinated answer** can be traced back to anything in the **retrieved context** - even loosely related or only partially grounding content. This question has **no correct answer** derivable from the original conversation. ## Retrieved Context {{retrieved_context}} ## Model 's Hallucinated Answer {{model_response}} ## Question {{question}} ## Instructions - Answer YES if any retrieved item - even weak, tangential, or only superficially relevant -could plausibly have led the model to generate this answer. - Answer NO if the model 's answer has no traceable connection to the retrieved context. 

Return JSON only: 

``` json {"traceable_to_retrieval": true_or_false, "reasoning": "<1-2 sentences identifying the retrieved item or confirming no connection>"} 

``` 

Step 2: Is Hallucination traceable to Retrieved Con-text? 

You are an expert evaluator of memory-augmented language models. The model 's hallucinated answer can be traced to an entry in **memory storage**. The question has no correct answer derivable from the original conversation -the memory entry itself is the source of the hallucination. Classify which write-time failure introduced the fabricated content. ## Original Conversation {{conversation}} ## Memory Storage {{memory_storage}} ## Retrieved Context {{retrieved_context}} ## Model 's Hallucinated Answer {{model_response}} ## Question {{question}} ---## ERROR TAXONOMY (memory-origin hallucination) ### hallucinated_memory_write The memory system fabricated an entry that has **no grounding** in the original conversation. - The stored "memory" was invented - never stated, implied, or inferable. - Distinct from `spurious_inference_stored `: no source statement exists at all. - Example: Conversation: (no mention of job title). Memory: "User is a senior PM at Google." ### spurious_inference_stored The memory system stored an **inference or extrapolation ** as if it were an explicit fact. - A loosely related source statement exists, but the stored memory significantly over-extends it. - The inference chain from source to stored claim is broken or unjustified. - Distinct from `abstraction_error ` (factuality error taxonomy): that type distorts a real, answerable fact - here the derived claim was never true to begin with. - Example: Conversation: "I 've been stressed at work lately." Memory: "User has anxiety disorder." ---**Tiebreaker:** If ANY statement - however distant -could seed the memory -> spurious_inference_stored. If no such seed exists -> hallucinated_memory_write. ---Return JSON only: 

``` json {"error_type": "<hallucinated_memory_write | spurious_inference_stored | or new name>", "is_novel_type": false, "novel_type_definition": null, "confidence": "<high | medium | low>", "explanation": "<2-4 sentences>", 

18 "alternative_considered": "<other category and why ruled out>", "evidence": { "conversation": "<relevant snippet or 'N/A - no related statement '>", "memory_storage": "<the fabricated or over-inferred entry>", "model_output": "<key hallucinated phrase>", "question": "<the question asked>" }}

``` 

Fine-Grained Retrieval-Time Error Annotation 

You are an expert evaluator of memory-augmented language models. The model 's hallucinated answer can be traced to the ** retrieved context**, but NOT to memory storage fabrication. The question has no correct answer derivable from the original conversation. Classify which retrieval failure caused the model to hallucinate rather than abstain. ## Original Conversation {{conversation}} ## Memory Storage {{memory_storage}} ## Retrieved Context {{retrieved_context}} ## Model 's Hallucinated Answer {{model_response}} ## Question {{question}} ---## ERROR TAXONOMY (retrieval-origin hallucination) ### false_positive_retrieval The retriever surfaced memories topically similar to the question but carrying **no actual answering information**. The model mistook high retrieval score for factual support. - Retrieved items are not wrong per se - they are just irrelevant to what the question is asking. - Example: Q: "What is the user 's blood type?" Retrieved : ["User exercises regularly", "User had a health check-up last year"] -> Model: "Blood type is O+." ### context_overextension The retrieved context contains **weak, partial, or loosely related** evidence; the model fills in the missing gap with hallucination rather than abstaining. - Retrieved items have some connection to the question but are insufficient to answer it. - Distinct from `false_positive_retrieval `: there is a genuine partial connection. - Example: Q: "What medication does the user take?" Retrieved: ["User mentioned managing a chronic condition "] -> Model: "User takes metformin daily." ---**Tiebreaker:** Zero factual relationship to the specific claim hallucinated -> false_positive_retrieval. Partial fact that model over-extended -> context_overextension. ---Return JSON only: 

``` json {"error_type": "<false_positive_retrieval | context_overextension | or new name>", "is_novel_type": false, 

"novel_type_definition": null, "confidence": "<high | medium | low>", "explanation": "<2-4 sentences>", "alternative_considered": "<other category and why ruled out>", "evidence": { "retrieved_context": "<the item that misled the model>", "model_output": "<key hallucinated phrase>", "question": "<the question asked>" }}

``` 

Fine-Grained Composition-Time Error Annotation 

You are an expert evaluator of memory-augmented language models. The model 's hallucinated answer cannot be traced to memory storage fabrication or retrieved context. The hallucination originated entirely at **generation time** (composition-time contamination). The question has no correct answer derivable from the original conversation. Classify which generation-level failure caused the model to hallucinate instead of abstaining. ## Original Conversation {{conversation}} ## Memory Storage {{memory_storage}} ## Retrieved Context {{retrieved_context}} ## Model 's Hallucinated Answer {{model_response}} ## Question {{question}} ---## ERROR TAXONOMY (generation-time / composition-time contamination) ### parametric_memory_intrusion The model ignored the retrieved context (empty, irrelevant, or insufficient) and substituted an answer from its **pretrained parametric knowledge** -treating a personal user question as if it were a general world-knowledge question. - The model 's pretrained parameters act as an uncontrolled, contaminating memory source: world knowledge bleeds into the personal memory system 'soutput. - Note: This category was previously named `

parametric_knowledge_override `; renamed to emphasize that parametric parameters constitute a distinct and uncontrolled memory source that contaminates personal memory retrieval. - Example: Q: "What is the user 's favorite book?" Retrieved: (nothing relevant) -> Model: " 'Atomic Habits 

'" (popular book from training data). ### unanswerable_recognition_failure The model failed to detect that the retrieved context is **insufficient** to answer the question and produced a confident answer instead of abstaining or expressing uncertainty. - Meta-cognitive calibration failure: the model 's "I don 

't know" trigger did not fire. - The hallucinated answer may not map to any specific retrieved item or pretrained fact -it is confabulated to fill the expected answer slot. - Example: Q: "How many siblings does the user have?" Retrieved: (empty) -> Model: "The user has two siblings ." (stated with confidence). ### hallucinated_reasoning_chain 

19 The model constructs a **multi-step reasoning path** not grounded in retrieved context, fabricating intermediate steps to bridge from weak/absent evidence to a confident answer. - Distinct from `multi_hop_reasoning_failure ` (factuality error taxonomy): that type fails *with* real facts present; here the reasoning chain itself is invented. - Example: Q: "Does the user prefer remote work?" Retrieved: ["User mentioned commuting takes time"] -> Model reasons: "Commuting mentioned -> dislikes commuting -> prefers remote -> Yes, strongly prefers remote." ---## Tiebreaker Rules | Tie | Resolution | |-----|------------| | parametric_memory_intrusion vs. unanswerable_recognition_failure | Answer resembles well -known general fact -> parametric_memory_intrusion. Confabulated without recognizable factual basis -> unanswerable_recognition_failure. | | unanswerable_recognition_failure vs. hallucinated_reasoning_chain | No visible reasoning chain -> unanswerable_recognition_failure. Explicit (but fabricated) reasoning steps -> hallucinated_reasoning_chain. | ---Return JSON only: 

``` json {"error_type": "<parametric_memory_intrusion | unanswerable_recognition_failure | hallucinated_reasoning_chain | or new name>", "is_novel_type": false, "novel_type_definition": null, "confidence": "<high | medium | low>", "explanation": "<2-4 sentences>", "alternative_considered": "<second-most-likely category and why ruled out>", "evidence": { "retrieved_context": "<what was retrieved or '(empty )'>", "model_output": "<key hallucinated phrase or reasoning step>", "question": "<the question asked>" }}

``` 

C MEM GUARD Details 

C.1 Memory Reorganization at Write-Time 

Atomic Knowledge & Relation Extraction & Knowl-edge Routing 

You are an expert knowledge extraction, relationship analysis, and routing system. Your job is to: 1. Decompose composite statements only where different knowledge types are implied; preserve co-purposeful actions as one entry. 2. Extract each fact as a separate knowledge entry, keeping all specific objects and entities intact. 3. Identify relationships between knowledge entries. 4. Route each entry to the correct memory type. ### CONTEXT Conversation Timestamp: {{conversation_timestamp}} New Messages: {{messages}} ---### PHASE 1: EXTRACT Scan the conversation for every useful piece of knowledge. Prefer over-extraction - a missed fact cannot 

be recovered; a redundant one is resolved later. **What to extract** (capture all that apply): - Identity & demographics: name, age, occupation, location, education, background - Personality & traits: self-described style, emotional patterns, decision tendencies, communication style - Preferences & tastes: food, entertainment, tech tools, travel, aesthetics, communication channels - Values & beliefs: ethical principles, priorities, worldview, attitudes toward money/work/life - Goals & plans: short-term tasks, long-term ambitions, learning objectives, financial/health goals - Constraints & challenges: budget limits, active problems, fears, non-negotiables, frustrations - Social relationships: family, partner, friends, colleagues, pets - with names and key facts - Health & wellbeing: conditions, medications, allergies , exercise habits, diet, sleep - Possessions & resources: devices, vehicles, subscriptions, financial resources, creative tools - Skills & expertise: professional skills, years of experience, languages, areas actively learning - Projects & work: active projects (name, goal, status, collaborators), responsibilities, affiliations - Routines & habits: recurring daily/weekly behaviors, work habits, financial habits, creative habits - Commitments & obligations: promises to named people, appointments with dates, ongoing duties - Life events: past/future occurrences, milestones, first-time experiences, reactions - Opinions & evaluations: ratings, recommendations, positive/negative/mixed reactions to products/people - Emotional states & reactions: expressed feelings tied to specific events or situations; emotional tone toward named people or places; significant emotional turning points volunteered by the speaker - Current life situation: life phase, recent major transitions, environmental/seasonal context - Domain knowledge: custom vocabulary, frameworks, named systems or tools they personally built **Decomposition - split composite statements before extracting:** Scan every statement for facts that belong to different memory types bundled together. Split only when types diverge; keep co-purposeful actions together. | Split trigger | How to split | |---|---| | Past event + derived stable belief or trait | Episodic entry for the event; semantic entry for the belief | | Occurrence + timeless motivational/emotional explanation | Separate entry for the occurrence; separate entry for the stable motivation | | Stable preference + the one-time event that revealed it | Episodic for the event; semantic for the preference || Two or more subjects sharing one predicate | One entry per subject | **Do NOT split when:** - Multiple actions share the same subject, context, and type (e.g., "will do A and B for C" -> one entry) - Multiple reasons/effects all belong to the same type -> merge into one entry Example - *"Melanie painted a lake sunrise last year and finds painting a fun way to express herself, get creative, and relax."* -> atom 0: Melanie painted a lake sunrise (time-anchored occurrence) -> atom 1: Melanie uses painting to express herself, get creative, and relax (stable multi-purpose belief - kept together since all purposes are semantic) Counter-example - *"I 'm going to launch a website and run ads for my limited edition hoodie line."* -> ONE episodic entry (same type, same subject, same context - do not split) **What to skip:** - Common public knowledge (e.g. "Python is a programming language", "Paris is in France") - Unverified inferences - extract only what is explicitly stated or clearly implied by the speaker 

20 **Completeness rules:** - Never omit named objects, products, places, quantities , or people from an entry - Preserve exact names, numbers, dates, units, and quoted phrases - Never bundle a time-anchored event and the stable belief it implies in one entry - Never mix information about different people in the same entry - If uncertain or ambiguous, set "uncertain": true **Time normalization:** - `time ` records when the event actually occurred (YYYY-MM-DD, YYYY-MM, or YYYY) - NOT the conversation timestamp - Resolve relative expressions ("next month", "last year ") to absolute dates using the Conversation Timestamp - In `details `, include both the resolved event time and the conversation timestamp so the entry is fully self-contained. - Format: `<resolved_time>: <fact> (mentioned on < conversation_timestamp>) `

- Example: conversation timestamp 2022-03-27, speaker says "I 've been playing drums for a month": -> resolved event start: 2022-02 -> `time `: "2022-02" -> `details `: "John has been playing drums for a month (mentioned on 2022-03-27); he described it as tough but fun." - If the day-of-week is needed but not known (e.g. "last weekend", "this Monday", "next Friday"), keep the expression as-is and note the conversation timestamp - Example: "last weekend" when day-of-week for 2023-07-05 is unknown -> `time `: "last weekend before 2023-07-05", `details `: "<fact> (mentioned on 2023-07-05)". - If no time is mentioned, use the Conversation Timestamp for `time `

---### PHASE 2: RELATE Identify meaningful relationships between extracted facts. Link facts that are explicitly connected in the conversation and that can be implicitly inferred in the conversation. Use exactly these relation labels: | Label | Meaning ||---|---| | `supports ` | source supports, evidences, or is required by / informed by target || `instance_of `| source is a concrete occurrence of the target concept || `derived_from ` | source stable fact was concluded from or triggered by target experience | | `leads_to ` | source event directly caused or led to target event || `context_for `| source provides background or context for target || `elaborates ` | source adds detail or specificity to target || `contradicts `| source conflicts with or updates target |Rules: - Each link is directional: source -> target follows the relation 's meaning - One atom may appear in multiple links - If no relationships exist, output "links": [] ---### PHASE 3: ROUTE Assign exactly one type to every extracted atom: - **semantic**: timeless and stable facts about a person or a world - **episodic**: time-anchored past/future events or experiences - **procedural**: recurring behaviors or routines **Guardrails:** 

- Past, long-time ago experience is anchored to time -> episodic, NOT semantic - A one-time description of how to do something -> episodic, NOT procedural - Procedural is ONLY for behaviors the person performs on a recurring basis ---### OUTPUT FORMAT Return a single JSON object: {"atoms": [ {"id": 0, "type": "semantic" | "episodic" | "procedural", "title": "Short label (<=10 words)", "details": "Full details including resolved event time and conversation timestamp where applicable", "time": "YYYY-MM-DD|YYYY-MM|YYYY", "uncertain": true|false }], "links": [ {"source": 0, "target": 1, "relation": "<relation_label>", "reasoning": "<one sentence grounded in the conversation>" }]}### CRITICAL RULES: 1. Return ONLY the JSON object; no preamble, explanation , or trailing text 2. Every extracted fact must appear as exactly one atom 3. Atom IDs must be 0-based consecutive integers matching their position in the array 4. Never omit named objects, places, or entities that appear in the source text 5. "title" must be unique and self-explanatory without surrounding context 

Memory Operation Assignment 

You are a memory operation assignment system. Compare newly extracted memory atoms against existing stored memories and decide what to do with each atom. ### CONTEXT Conversation Timestamp: {{conversation_timestamp}} Existing Semantic Memories (compare ONLY for semantic atoms): {{existing_semantic_memories}} Existing Episodic Memories (compare ONLY for episodic atoms): {{existing_episodic_memories}} Existing Procedural Memories (compare ONLY for procedural atoms): {{existing_procedural_memories}} New Memory Atoms: {{atoms_json}} ---### PHASE 4: ASSIGN OPERATIONS For every atom, compare it against existing memories OF THE SAME TYPE and assign exactly one action: - **ADD**: No existing memory covers this fact. Create a new entry. - **UPDATE**: An existing memory partially covers this fact AND the new information meaningfully extends or corrects it (adds specificity, fixes an error, updates a changed value). Include `old_memory_id `.

21 - **SKIP**: The fact is already fully captured by an existing memory. Include `existing_id ` (the ID of the overlapping memory). The `existing_id ` becomes the identity of this atom for Phase 5 - a SKIPped atom is not stored as a new memory, so its `existing_id ` must be used whenever it appears as a link endpoint. When in doubt between ADD and UPDATE, prefer ADD to avoid overwriting valid historical context. Compare: - semantic atoms -> against existing_semantic_memories - episodic atoms -> against existing_episodic_memories - procedural atoms -> against existing_procedural_memories ---### PHASE 5: EXISTING LINKS Links between new atoms were already captured in Phase 2 (RELATE). This phase handles only **links that cross the boundary between new and existing memories**. Identify relationships where one endpoint is a new ADD/ UPDATE atom and the other is an existing stored memory. This covers: - A new ADD/UPDATE atom that elaborates, contradicts, or provides context for an existing memory - A SKIPped atom whose `existing_id ` is meaningfully connected to another ADD/UPDATE atom - use the SKIP 's `

existing_id ` as the endpoint, not the atom index **Do NOT create links where both endpoints are new atoms ** - those belong to Phase 2 and are already recorded. Use exactly these relation labels: | Label | Meaning ||---|---| | `supports ` | source supports, evidences, or is required by / informed by target || `instance_of `| source is a concrete occurrence of the target concept || `derived_from ` | source stable fact was concluded from or triggered by target experience | | `leads_to ` | source event directly caused or led to target event || `context_for `| source provides background or context for target || `elaborates ` | source adds detail or specificity to target || `contradicts `| source conflicts with or updates target |Each link needs exactly one source and one target. Choose the correct field: - ADD/UPDATE atom as endpoint: use `source_atom ` or `

target_atom ` (integer atom id) - Existing memory as endpoint (including a SKIP 's `

existing_id `): use `source_existing_id ` or `

target_existing_id ` (memory id string) **Do NOT use `source_atom `/`target_atom ` for SKIPped atoms** - they are not stored as new memories. Always reference them via `source_existing_id `/`

target_existing_id `.Only create links explicitly grounded in the conversation. If none exist, output "existing_links": []. ---### OUTPUT FORMAT Return a single JSON object: {"operations": [ {"atom_id": 0, "action": "ADD"}, {"atom_id": 1, "action": "UPDATE", "old_memory_id": "<existing_memory_id>"}, {"atom_id": 2, "action": "SKIP", "existing_id": "< existing_memory_id>"} ], "existing_links": [ 

{"source_atom": 0, "target_existing_id": "<existing_memory_id>", "relation": "<relation_label>", "reasoning": "<one sentence grounded in the conversation>" }, {"source_existing_id": "<existing_memory_id>", "target_atom": 1, "relation": "<relation_label>", "reasoning": "<one sentence>" }, {"source_existing_id": "<skip_atom_existing_id>", "target_atom": 2, "relation": "<relation_label>", "reasoning": "<atom 2 is new ADD/UPDATE; the SKIP atom is referenced via its existing_id>" }]}### CRITICAL RULES: 1. Return ONLY the JSON object - no preamble, explanation, or trailing text 2. Every atom must appear in exactly one operation 3. SKIP operations must include `existing_id `

4. UPDATE operations must include `old_memory_id `

Self-Check Memory Extraction 

You are a memory extraction auditor. A first-pass extraction has already been run on the conversation below. Your job is to identify any important facts that were MISSED - do not repeat what is already captured. ### CONTEXT Conversation Timestamp: {{conversation_timestamp}} New Messages: {{messages}} ---### Already Extracted Atoms (do NOT duplicate these): {{existing_atoms_json}} ---### TASK Carefully re-read the conversation and list any important facts NOT yet captured above. **Extraction Rules:** - Only report genuinely new facts - skip anything already covered by an existing atom - Skip common public knowledge and unverified inferences - Preserve exact names, numbers, dates, and entities - Split composite facts that span different types ( episodic event vs. semantic belief) - Use `time ` for when the event occurred (YYYY-MM-DD, YYYY-MM, or YYYY); resolve relative expressions using the Conversation Timestamp - New atom IDs must start at {{next_id}} and increment consecutively **Relation Rules:** - Links may connect new additional atoms to each other OR to existing atoms (using their existing IDs) - Use exactly these relation labels: | Label | Meaning ||---|---| | `supports ` | source supports, evidences, or is required by / informed by target || `instance_of `| source is a concrete occurrence of the target concept || `derived_from ` | source stable fact was concluded from or triggered by target experience | | `leads_to ` | source event directly caused or led to target event |

22 | `context_for `| source provides background or context for target || `elaborates ` | source adds detail or specificity to target || `contradicts `| source conflicts with or updates target |**Routing Rules:** Assign exactly one type to every extracted atom: - **semantic**: timeless and stable facts about a person or a world - **episodic**: time-anchored past/future events or experiences - **procedural**: recurring behaviors or routines If nothing was missed, return `{"additional_atoms": [], "additional_links": []} `.---### OUTPUT FORMAT {"additional_atoms": [ {"id": {{next_id}}, "type": "semantic" | "episodic" | "procedural", "title": "Short label (<=10 words)", "details": "Full details including resolved event time and conversation timestamp", "time": "YYYY-MM-DD|YYYY-MM|YYYY", "uncertain": true|false }], "additional_links": [ {"source": <atom_id>, "target": <atom_id>, "relation": "<relation_label>", "reasoning": "<one sentence grounded in the conversation>" }]}### CRITICAL RULES: 1. Return ONLY the JSON object - no preamble, explanation, or trailing text 2. New atom IDs must start at {{next_id}} - never reuse existing atom IDs 3. Never omit named objects, places, or entities from atom details 

C.2 Dynamic Memory Routing at Retrieval-Time 

Dynamic Routing at Memory Retrieval 

You are a memory routing assistant. Given a user query, assign a confidence weight (0.0-1.0) to each memory type that may contain the answer. Weights must sum to 1.0. Memory types: - semantic: timeless and stable facts about a person or a world - episodic: time-anchored past/future events or experiences - procedural: recurring behaviors or routines Query: {{user_query}} Return ONLY a JSON object: {"weights": {"semantic": <float>, "episodic": <float>, " procedural": <float>}} 

Answer Generation 

Retrieved memories: {retrieved context} Question: {question} 

Instructions: 1. Carefully analyze the retrieved memories to find relevant information 2. Consider synonyms and related concepts (e.g., " support group", "activist group" may refer to similar things) 3. If memories mention specific dates/times, use those to answer time-related questions 4. If memories contain contradictory information, prioritize the most recent memory 5. Focus on the content of the memories, not just exact word matches **For factual questions (What/When/Where/Who):** - Answer based on direct information in the memories - If the specific fact is not mentioned, respond: "Not answerable" **For inference/reasoning questions (Would/Could/Likely) :** - You CAN make reasonable inferences based on related information in the memories **When to say "Not answerable":** - If the question asks about a specific person but the memories are about a DIFFERENT person - If the question asks about an event/action that is NOT mentioned in ANY memories - If you find information about a similar but DIFFERENT event Provide a concise, direct answer based on the available information, or state "Not answerable" if the specific information is not present. 

D Evaluation Details 

D.1 Dataset 

We use HaluMem (Chen et al., 2025), a benchmark specifically designed to diagnose hallucinations in memory-augmented LLMs. HaluMem systemat-ically probes the model’s ability to (i) avoid pro-ducing ungrounded memory entries, (ii) correctly identify when sufficient evidence is lacking, and (iii) resist propagating erroneous or hallucinated information during both memory writing and gen-eration. This makes it particularly suitable for mea-suring contamination across the memory pipeline. To further evaluate long-term memory capabilities in realistic conversational settings, we addition-ally consider three widely used dialogue bench-marks: (i) LongMemEval (Wu et al., 2024) that consists of user-assistant chat histories with 400 questions for test split, (ii) LoCoMo (Maharana et al., 2024) that contains 10 human-human con-versations between fictional personas grounded in temporal event graphs, including 600 dialogues and 26,000 tokens on average with averagely 200 ques-tions for each conversation, and (iii) PerLTQA (Du et al., 2024) features 141 characters with rich per-sonal profiles, social relationships, and life events that includes 8,593 questions over 30 characters, all requiring personalized memory retention and retrieval. 23 D.2 Implementation Details 

For hallucination evaluation on HaluMem (Chen et al., 2025), we follow the original protocol, while evaluating on HaluMem-Medium due to computational cost. Unless otherwise noted, MEM GUARD uses GPT-4.1-mini as the base LLM, GPT-4.1 as the LLM-as-a-judge, and 

text-embedding-3-small for the embedding model in retrieval. We retrieve the top-10 memo-ries for memory updating and the top-20 memories for question answering, matching the HaluMem setup. Baseline results are taken from the origi-nal HaluMem paper, where GPT-4o serves as both the base LLM and judge. Due to the high cost of GPT-4o , M EM GUARD uses GPT-4.1-mini as the base LLM, and this comparison is conserva-tive for M EM GUARD while substantially reduc-ing computational cost as GPT-4o is stronger than 

GPT-4.1-mini . A-Mem and MIRIX are excluded from HaluMem comparisons because they were not reported in the original benchmark and require method-specific APIs. For utility evaluation on LoCoMo (Maharana et al., 2024) and LongMemEval (Wu et al., 2024), we follow prior work (Li et al., 2025), using 

GPT-4o-mini as both the base LLM and the LLM-as-a-judge. By default, M EM GUARD retrieves the top-20 memories for memory updating and top-k

memories for answer generation, with k = 20 . We further analyze the effect of varying k and the num-ber of retrieval hops. To isolate the effect of model choice, we also report utility results under the HaluMem-consistent setting, using GPT-4.1-mini 

as the base LLM and GPT-4.1 as the judge. Unless explicitly reproduced, baseline results are taken from their original papers: hallucination results from HaluMem (Chen et al., 2025) and util-ity results from MemOS (Li et al., 2025). This is unavoidable because most baselines depend on method-specific APIs beyond the OpenAI API. The only exception is A-Mem (Xu et al., 2025), which we reproduce under our utility evaluation setting. 

D.3 Evaluation Metrics 

Following HaluMem (Chen et al., 2025), we evalu-ate hallucination behavior at three stages: memory extraction, memory updating, and memory ques-tion answering. For memory extraction, we assess both coverage and factuality. Let G denote the set of gold memory points and M denote the memo-ries extracted by the system. We measure memory completeness using recall, measuring the propor-tion of reference memories that are successfully extracted by the memory system: 

R = |G matched ||G| .

We also report weighted recall, which accounts for the relative importance of each reference mem-ory, assigning higher weight to more important memories and giving partial credit when a memory is only partially extracted: 

Weighted R = 

P 

> gi∈G

wisi

P 

> gi∈G

wi

,

where wi is the importance weight of gold mem-ory gi, and si ∈ { 1, 0.5, 0} is the extraction score indicating whether the memory is fully extracted, partially extracted, or omitted. To measure factu-ality, target precision evaluates the correctness of extracted memories that correspond to gold targets: 

Target P = |M correct ∩ M target ||M target | .

Memory accuracy evaluates the correctness of all extracted memories, which assesses whether the extracted memories are factual and free from hallucination: 

Acc = |M correct ||M| .

We compute memory extraction F1 as the har-monic mean of recall and target precision, which shows the overall performance of the memory ex-traction task by jointly considering completeness and correctness: 

F1 = 2 · R · Target P R + Target P .

For memory updating, we evaluate whether the system can correctly modify, merge, or replace ex-isting memories during new dialogues so that con-sistency is maintained without introducing halluci-nations. Following HaluMem, each update is cate-gorized as correct, hallucinated, or omitted. Given 

Nupd target updates, we report the correctness, hal-lucination, and omission rates: 

Cupd = Ncorrect 

Nupd 

,

Hupd = Nhallucinated 

Nupd 

,

24 Oupd = Nomitted 

Nupd 

.

The correctness rate measures the proportion of required updates that are correctly applied. The 

hallucination rate measures the proportion of up-dates that introduce incorrect or fabricated informa-tion. The omission rate measures the proportion of required updates that are not applied or are missed by the memory system. For memory question answering, we evaluate the end-to-end reliability of the memory system after memory extraction, updating, retrieval, and answer generation. The system retrieves relevant mem-ories and generates an answer for each question, which is then compared against the reference an-swer. The correctness rate measures the proportion of questions answered correctly. The hallucina-tion rate measures the proportion of answers that contain unsupported or incorrect information. The 

omission rate measures the proportion of answers that leave the question unanswered due to missing memories. Given Nqa questions, we compute: 

Cqa = Ncorrect 

Nqa 

,

Hqa = Nhallucinated 

Nqa 

,

Oqa = Nomitted 

Nqa 

.

Higher values are better for recall, weighted recall, target precision, memory accuracy, F1, and cor-rectness rate, whereas lower values are better for hallucination and omission rates. For utility evaluation on LoCoMo (Maharana et al., 2024) and LongMemEval (Wu et al., 2024), we report answer accuracy using an LLM-as-a-judge, following prior work (Li et al., 2025). 

D.4 Hallucination Evaluation Prompts 

We use the prompts provided by HaluMem (Chen et al., 2025) for answer generation, memory in-tegrity evaluation, memory update evaluation, and qa generation evaluation. 

Answer Generation 

You are an intelligent memory assistant tasked with retrieving accurate information from conversation memories. # CONTEXT: You have access to memories retrieved from a conversation history. Each memory may include a timestamp, contextual summary, and tags that can help you identify relevant information. 

# INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Carefully analyze all provided memories 2. Pay special attention to the timestamps to determine the answer 3. If the question asks about a specific event or fact, look for direct evidence in the memories 4. If memories contain contradictory information, prioritize the most recent memory 5. If there is a question about time references (like "last year", "two months ago", etc.), calculate the actual date based on the memory timestamp. For example, if a memory from 4 May 2022 mentions "went to India last year," then the trip occurred in 2021. 6. Always convert relative time references to specific dates, months, or years. 7. Focus only on the content of the memories. Do not confuse character names mentioned in memories with the actual users who created those memories. 8. The answer should be less than 5-6 words. # APPROACH (Think step by step): 1. First, examine all memories that contain information related to the question 2. Examine the timestamps and content of these memories carefully 3. Look for explicit mentions of dates, times, locations, or events that answer the question 4. If the answer requires calculation (e.g., converting relative time references), show your work 5. Formulate a precise, concise answer based solely on the evidence in the memories 6. Double-check that your answer directly addresses the question asked 7. Ensure your final answer is specific and avoids vague time references {context} Question: {question} Answer: 

Memory Integrity Evaluation 

You are a strict **"Memory Integrity" evaluator**. Your core task is to assess whether an AI memory system has **missed any key memory points** after processing a conversation. This evaluation measures the system 's ** memory integrity**, i.e., its ability to resist ** amnesia** or **omission**. # Evaluation Context & Data: 1. **Extracted Memories:** These are all the memory items actually extracted by the memory system. {memories} 2. **Expected Memory Point:** The key memory point that *should* have been extracted. {expected_memory_point} # Evaluation Instructions: 1. For each **Expected Memory Point**, search within the **Extracted Memories** list for corresponding or related information. Ignore unrelated items. 2. Based on the following scoring rubric, rate how well the memory system captured the **Expected Memory Point** and provide a detailed explanation. # Scoring Rubric: * **2:** Fully covered or implied. One or more items in "Extracted Memories" fully cover or logically imply all information in the "Expected Memory Point." * **1:** Partially covered or mentioned. 

25 Some information in "Extracted Memories" mentions part of the "Expected Memory Point," but key information is missing, inaccurate, or slightly incorrect. * **0:** Not mentioned or incorrect. "Extracted Memories" contains no mention of the " Expected Memory Point," or the corresponding information is entirely wrong. # Scoring Notes: * For **compound Expected Memory Points** (with multiple elements such as person/event/time/location/preference, etc.): * All elements correct -> **2 points** * Some elements correct / uncertain -> **1 point** * Key elements missing or wrong -> **0 points** * Semantic matching is acceptable; exact wording is ** not** required. * If "Extracted Memories" contains **conflicting information**, assign the **best possible coverage score ** and mention the conflict in your reasoning. * Extra or stylistically different memories do **not** reduce the score; only the coverage of the **Expected Memory Point** matters. * For uncertain wording ("might," "probably," "tends to ," etc.): * If the Expected Memory Point is a definite statement , usually assign **1 point**. * If critical fields (e.g., time, entity name, relationship) are partly wrong but others match -> **1 point**. * If all key fields are wrong or missing -> **0 points **. # Output Format: Please output your result in the following JSON format: 

``` json {{ "reasoning": "Provide a concise justification for the score", "score": "2|1|0" }} 

``` 

Memory Accuracy Evaluation 

You are a **Dialogue Memory Accuracy Evaluator.** Your task is to evaluate the **accuracy** of a memory extracted by an AI memory system, based on three given inputs: the dialogue content, the *target (gold)* memory points (the correct annotated memories), and the * candidate* memory to be evaluated. The goal is to output a **structured evaluation result**. # Input Content * **Dialogue:** {dialogue} * **Golden Memories (Target Memory Points):** The correct memory points pre-annotated for this dialogue in the evaluation dataset. {golden_memories} * **Candidate Memory:** The memory extracted by the system to be evaluated. {candidate_memory} # Evaluation Principles and Definitions ### 1) Support / Entailment 

* An **information point** (atomic fact) in the candidate memory is considered *supported* if it can be directly stated or semantically entailed (via synonym, paraphrase, or equivalent expression) by the *Dialogue* or *Golden Memories*. * Only the given dialogue and golden memories can be used for judgment - **no external knowledge** or assumptions are allowed. Any information not appearing in or inferable from these two sources is considered *unsupported*. * Pay careful attention to **negation**, **quantities**, **time**, and **subjects**. If the candidate statement contradicts the dialogue or golden memories, it is considered a **conflict**. ### 2) Memory Accuracy Score (integer: 0 / 1 / 2) * **2 points:** Every information point in the candidate memory is supported by the dialogue or golden memories, with **no contradictions or hallucinations**. * **1 point:** The candidate memory is *partially correct* (at least one supported information point) but also includes *unsupported* or *contradictory* content. * **0 points:** The candidate memory is **entirely unsupported or contradictory** to the sources (i.e., a " hallucinated memory"). > Note: >> * If a candidate memory contains multiple information points, **any unsupported or contradictory element** prevents a full score (2). > * If both supported and unsupported/conflicting content appear, assign a score of **1**. ### 3) Inclusion in Golden Memories (Boolean field-level judgment) **Definition:** * **Atomic information point:** the smallest factual unit in the candidate memory (e.g., *name = Li Si*, *age = 25*, *location = Beijing*, *preference = coffee*, * budget <= 2000*, *meeting_time = Wednesday 10:00*, *tool = Zoom*, etc.). * **Field / Slot:** the semantic dimension of an information point (e.g., *name*, *age*, *residence*, * food preference*, *budget*, *meeting time*, *meeting tool*, etc.). **Judgment Rules (independent of correctness):** * **true:** Every atomic information point in the candidate memory has a corresponding **field** in the golden memories ( allowing for synonyms, paraphrases, or equivalent expressions; ignore value, polarity, or quantity differences). * Note: A single field in the gold list may match multiple candidate points (e.g., multiple "drink preference" facts can be covered by one "drink preference" field in gold). * **false:** If **any** atomic information point 's field in the candidate memory cannot be found in the golden memories, mark as *false*. **Important Notes:** * Field matching is restricted to fields that are ** explicitly present or semantically recognizable** in the golden memories - no external knowledge may be used to expand the field set. * Differences in **values** (e.g., "Zhang San" vs. "Li Si"), **polarity** (like/dislike), or **exact number/ time** do **not** affect this Boolean judgment. # Evaluation Procedure For each candidate memory: 1. **Decompose** it into atomic information points (e.g ., name, number, location, preference). 2. For each information point, **search** the dialogue and golden memories for supporting or contradictory 

26 evidence. 3. Assign the **accuracy_score** (0 / 1 / 2) according to the rules above. 4. Determine **is_included_in_golden_memories (true/ false)**: * Identify each information point 's field; * If *all* fields exist in the golden memories, mark as *true*; otherwise, *false*. 5. Provide a **concise Chinese explanation** in `"reason "`, citing key evidence (short excerpts allowed), and clearly state any unsupported or contradictory parts if applicable. # Output Format (strictly required) Output **only one JSON object**, with the following three fields: * `"accuracy_score" `: `"0" ` or `"1" ` or `"2" `

* `"is_included_in_golden_memories" `: `"true" ` or `"false" `

* `"reason" `: `"brief explanation in Chinese" `

Do **not** include any other text, explanation, or fields. Do **not** include the candidate memory text inside the JSON. Please output **only** the following JSON (in a code block): 

``` json {{ "accuracy_score": "2 | 1 | 0", "is_included_in_golden_memories": "true | false", "reason": "Brief explanation in Chinese" }} 

``` 

Memory Update Evaluation 

Your task is to **evaluate the update accuracy** of an AI memory system. Based on the information provided below, determine whether the system-generated **"Generated Memories"** correctly **includes** the **Target Memory for Update**. # Background Information The following information is provided for evaluation: 1. **Generated Memories:** This is the list of memory points generated by the system after the current dialogue. {memories} 2. **Target Memory for Update:** This is the correct, updated version of the memory point that should have been produced - the one we focus on in this evaluation. {updated_memory} 3. **Original Memory Content:** This is the original version of the target memory before the update. {original_memory} # Evaluation Criteria Please make your judgment **strictly based on the content update of the "Target Memory for Update."** Use the following categories: ### Correct Update * **Generated Memories** **contains all information points** from the "Target Memory for Update," accurately and completely reflecting the intended update. * **Key fields** (e.g., date, time, values, proper nouns , etc.) must match exactly. * The **original memory** is effectively replaced or marked as outdated. 

* Synonymous or slightly rephrased expressions are acceptable. ### Hallucinated Update * **factuality error:** The **Generated Memories** includes a new memory related to the "Target Memory for Update," but its content contains factual mistakes or contradictions compared to the correct update. ### Omitted Update * **Completely omitted:** The **Generated Memories** contains no new memory related to the "Target Memory for Update." * **Partially omitted:** A related new memory was generated in **Generated Memories**, but it **misses key information** that should have been included. ### Other Used for update failures that do **not clearly fall** into the above categories of "Hallucination" or " Omission." # Output Requirements Please return your evaluation strictly in the following JSON format and provide a concise explanation. 

``` json {{ "reason": "Briefly explain your reasoning here and why it fits this category.", "evaluation_result": "Correct | Hallucination | Omission | Other" }} 

``` 

QA Generation Evaluation 

You are an **evaluation expert for AI memory system question answering**. Based **only** on the provided **"Question"**, **" Reference Answer"**, and **"Key Memory Points"** (the essential facts needed to derive the reference answer), strictly evaluate the **accuracy** of the **"Memory System Response."** Classify it as one of **"Correct"**, **"Hallucination"**, or **"Omission."** Do **not** use any external knowledge or subjective inference. Finally, output your judgment **strictly** in the specified JSON format. # Evaluation Criteria ## Answer Type Classification ### 1. Correct * The "Memory System Response" accurately answers the " Question," and its content is **semantically equivalent ** to the "Reference Answer." * It contains **no contradictions** with the "Key Memory Points" or "Reference Answer." * It introduces **no unsupported details** beyond the " Key Memory Points" that could alter the conclusion. * Synonyms, paraphrasing, and reasonable summarization are acceptable. ### 2. Hallucination * The "Memory System Response" includes information or facts that **contradict or are inconsistent** with the " Reference Answer" or the "Key Memory Points." * When the "Reference Answer" is labeled as *unknown/ uncertain*, yet the response provides a specific verifiable fact or conclusion. * Extra irrelevant information that does **not change** the conclusion is **not** considered hallucination by itself; however, if it **changes or misleads** the conclusion, or **contradicts** the "Key Memory Points," it should be judged as a **Hallucination**. 

27 ### 3. Omission * The response is **incomplete** compared to the " Reference Answer." * It explicitly states "don 't know," "can 't remember," or "no related memory," even though relevant information exists in the "Key Memory Points." * For multi-element questions, **all elements must be correct and present**; omission of **any** element is considered an **Omission**. ## Priority Rules (Conflict Handling) * If the response contains **both missing necessary information** and **fabricated/contradictory information **, classify it as **Hallucination**. * If there is **no fabrication/contradiction** but some necessary information is missing, classify it as ** Omission**. * Only when the meaning is **fully equivalent** to the reference answer should it be classified as **Correct**. ## Detailed Guidelines and Tolerance * Equivalent expressions of numbers, times, and units are acceptable, but the **numerical values themselves must not differ**. * For multi-element questions, **all elements must be complete and accurate**; missing any element counts as **Omission**. * If the reference answer is *"unknown / cannot be determined"* and the system provides a definite fact, that is a **Hallucination**. If the system also answers *"unknown"* (without guessing), it may be **Correct**. * The evaluation must rely **only** on the *Reference Answer*, *Key Memory Points*, and *System Response* - no external context, world knowledge, or speculative reasoning is allowed. # Information for Evaluation * **Question:** {question} * **Reference Answer:** {reference_answer} * **Key Memory Points:** {key_memory_points} * **Memory System Response:** {response} # Output Requirements Please provide your evaluation result **strictly** in the JSON format below. Do **not** add any extra explanation or comments outside the JSON block. 

``` json {{ "reasoning": "Provide a concise and traceable evaluation rationale: first compare the system 'sresponse with the Key Memory Points (which were correctly used, which were missing, and whether there was any fabrication/contradiction), then assess its consistency with the Reference Answer, and finally state the classification basis.", "evaluation_result": "Correct | Hallucination | Omission" }} 

``` 

Retrieval Quality Evaluation 

You are a strict **Retrieval Coverage Evaluator**. Your task is to determine whether a **Retrieved Context ** contains enough information to cover a specific ** Gold Evidence Point** that is required to answer a question correctly. 

# Inputs 1. **Retrieved Context:** This is the set of memory entries returned by a retrieval system for a given query. {retrieved_context} 2. **Gold Evidence Point:** This is the specific key memory fact that *should* be present in the retrieved context in order to answer the question correctly. {gold_evidence_point} # Evaluation Instructions Determine whether the **Gold Evidence Point** is covered by the **Retrieved Context** using the following scoring rubric: * **2 - Fully covered:** One or more entries in the retrieved context fully state or logically imply all information in the gold evidence point. Paraphrase and synonymous expressions are acceptable. * **1 - Partially covered:** Some related information appears in the retrieved context but key details (e.g., a specific value, name, date, or relationship) are missing or imprecise. * **0 - Not covered:** The retrieved context contains no information about the gold evidence point, or the corresponding content is entirely wrong. # Scoring Notes * Focus exclusively on whether the gold evidence point 'sinformation is retrievable from the context - do not judge the quality or relevance of other context entries. * Semantic equivalence is sufficient; exact wording is not required. * If the retrieved context contains conflicting entries, use the best-matching entry for scoring. # Output Format Output **only** the following JSON: 

``` json {{ "reasoning": "Brief explanation of why this score was assigned.", "score": "2|1|0" }} 

``` 

D.5 Utility Evaluation Prompts 

Utility evaluation is done with LLM-as-a-Judge, where LLMs judge whether the model-generated answer is correct or not by referring to the gold answer. 

Answer Evaluation 

Your task is to label an answer to a question as '

CORRECT ' or 'WRONG '. You will be given the following data: (1) a question (posed by one user to another user), (2) a 'gold ' (ground truth) answer, (3) a generated answer which you will score as CORRECT/WRONG. The point of the question is to ask about something one user should know about the other user based on their prior conversations. The gold answer will usually be a concise and short answer that includes the referenced topic, for example: Question: Do you remember what I got the last time I went to Hawaii? Gold answer: A shell necklace The generated answer might be much longer, but you should be generous with your grading - as long as it 

28 touches on the same topic as the gold answer, it should be counted as CORRECT. For time related questions, the gold answer will be a specific date, month, year, etc. The generated answer might be much longer or use relative time references ( like "last Tuesday" or "next month"), but you should be generous with your grading - as long as it refers to the same date or time period as the gold answer, it should be counted as CORRECT. Even if the format differs (e.g., "May 7th" vs "7 May"), consider it CORRECT if it 's the same date. Handling "Not answerable" cases: 1. If the GOLD answer is "Not answerable" (meaning the information truly doesn 't exist in the conversation history): - The generated answer should be CORRECT if it clearly indicates unavailability - Accept equivalent expressions: "Not answerable", " There is no information", "There is no direct record", " does not appear to be", "no explicit mention", "cannot be determined", "no specific details available" - As long as the generated answer conveys that the information is unavailable, count it as CORRECT 2. If the GOLD answer is a SPECIFIC answer (e.g., "7 May 2023", "John", "Paris"): - The generated answer saying "Not answerable" should be counted as WRONG - This means the system failed to retrieve information that actually exists in the conversation history - Even if phrased as "no information available" or similar, it 's still WRONG when the gold answer is specific - IMPORTANT: Even if the generated answer mentions the correct information but attributes it to a DIFFERENT person/entity than asked in the question, it should be counted as WRONG. For example, if the question asks about "Alice 's opinion" but the answer says "Bob thinks X" (even if X matches the gold answer), this is WRONG because it answers about the wrong person. 3. CRITICAL RULE for "Not answerable" responses: - When the generated answer indicates "Not answerable " or similar (cannot find, no information, etc.), the ONLY way it can be CORRECT is if the GOLD answer is ALSO "Not answerable" - If the gold answer contains ANY specific information (names, dates, facts, opinions, etc.), then a "Not answerable" response is ALWAYS WRONG, regardless of any explanation or reasoning provided in the generated answer - Do NOT be misled by keywords in the explanation -focus on whether the answer actually provides the requested information Now it 's time for the real question: Question: {question} Gold answer: {gold_answer} Generated answer: {generated_answer} First, provide a short (one sentence) explanation of your reasoning, then finish with CORRECT or WRONG. Do NOT include both CORRECT and WRONG in your response, or it will break the evaluation script. Just return the label CORRECT or WRONG in a json format with the key as "label". 

E Use of Large Language Models 

Large language models, such as ChatGPT, are used exclusively for grammar checking during the writing process. They are not used for research ideation. 29